http : / / www . cbc . ca / sports / wladimir - klitschko - stops - tony - thompson - to - retain - world - heavyweight - titles - 1 . 1263752
Wladimir Klitschko stops Tony Thompson to retain world heavyweight titles
Posted : Jul 07 , 2012 7 : 40 PM ET
Last Updated : Jul 07 , 2012 8 : 44 PM ET
Wladimir Klitschko stopped Tony Thompson in the sixth round to keep a comfortable hold on his WBA , IBF and WBO heavyweight title belts on Saturday in Bern , Switzerland .
Klitschko put Thompson on the canvas with a big right hand near the end of the fifth round at Stade de Suisse , and the 40 - year - old American southpaw never recovered .
The Ukrainian champion dropped Thompson again in the sixth , and referee Sam Williams gave the challenger a standing count before stopping the fight at 2 : 56 .
"Thompson was not so easy to box .
I'm satisfied , " said the 36 - year - old Klitschko , who improved his record to 58 - 3 ( 51 KO ) .
Klitschko finished the fight five rounds sooner than when knocking out Thompson in the 11th of their first title fight in 2008 .
Thompson , who was the mandatory challenger nominated by the IBF , fell to 36 - 3 ( 24 KO ) .
After the fight , Klitschko led the 22 , 000 crowd in signing "Happy Birthday" to his trainer Emanuel Steward , whose was 68 on Saturday .
"Tony Thompson is very hard to hit , " Steward said .
"Tony was watching Wladimir's right hand all night . "
A cagey opening round was followed by a scrappy second , as Klitschko twice wrestled Thompson to the floor .
Thompson briefly stepped up his cautious tactics when landing a left to Klitschko's face in the third .
Klitschko finally landed a long , straight right in the fifth and the round ended with Thompson struggling on the ropes .
The champion cornered Thompson toward the end of the sixth , and landed punches to the head though no single blow appeared to cause serious damage .
"I got caught but I'm OK , " Thompson said in the ring .
"He's strong and he's world heavyweight champion for a reason . "
Klitschko extended the domination of the heavyweight ranks he shares with his elder brother Vitali .
Vitali was in his brother's corner as usual , and acted as cheerleader in the third round , urging on fans in the football stadium when the first chants of "Klitschko , Klistchko" stirred .
The elder Klitschko will defend his WBC title against Manuel Charr of Germany in Moscow on Sept . 8 .