http : / / www . nyaccidentcase . com / blog / 2013 / 09 / hit - and - run - crash - leaves - queens - mother - of - 2 - dead . shtml
Hit - and - run crash leaves Queens mother of 2 dead
On behalf of Newman , Anzalone & Newman , LLP . posted in Hit and Run Accidents on Friday , September 20 , 2013 .
In New York , there are laws about what to do if you have been involved in an accident .
One extremely important law is that both drivers must remain at the scene of the crash if someone was injured or killed .
This law helps make sure that no one is left behind to try to get help on their own .
Unfortunately , some people are too afraid of the other potential consequences of a serious crash that they choose to flee the scene , leaving victims to fend for themselves .
This type of negligence can lead to a delay in treatment , which could result in death .
Just last week , a serious hit - and - run accident took place in Queens .
When a 59 - year - old woman stepped out of her car at 97th Avenue and 117th Street , she was struck by a car .
Instead of stopping to help her , however , the driver fled the scene .
Sadly , the mother of two died from injuries she sustained in the crash .
Thankfully , a police officer was nearby and saw the collision .
He chased down the driver and eventually arrested him .
The driver was charged with drunk driving , leaving the scene of an accident resulting in death , and vehicular manslaughter .
For victims injured in a hit - and - run accident and the family members of those who were killed by hit - and - run drivers , the aftermath of such accidents can be very difficult to deal with .
On top of trying to recover from injuries or grieving the loss of a loved one , many people wonder how they will be able to obtain compensation for costs incurred due to the accident .
Even if you don't know who hit you , there are ways to obtain compensation for the damages inflicted in a hit - and - run crash .
Whether you work with an attorney to find the driver or pursue compensation through your personal injury protection coverage , there are ways to make sure you get the financial help you need after an accident .