http : / / theforumnewsgroup . com / 2013 / 09 / 19 / grandmother - killed - by - drunk - driver - in - hit - and - run - accident - in - richmond - hill - queens - da - says /
GRANDMOTHER KILLED BY DRUNK DRIVER IN HIT - AND - RUN ACCIDENT IN RICHMOND HILL , QUEENS DA SAYSSEPTEMBER 19 , 2013
A 59 - year - old grandmother on her way to a religious service in Richmond Hill last Friday was hit and killed by an allegedly drunk driver who fled the scene of the accident that left her family and friends devastated , Queens District Attorney Richard Brown said .
Raj Chohan , who lived in South Ozone Park , was walking towards a Sikh temple for a Friday evening service when Vishwanand Subryan , 23 , of Schenectady , N . Y . , allegedly mowed into the older woman with his gray 2013 Toyota Camry around 7 p . m . , police said .
Emergency workers rushed to her side and brought her to Jamaica Hospital Medical Center , where Chohan – an immigrant from India who leaves behind a husband , son and two grandchildren – died later that night , police said .
Subryan has been charged with vehicular manslaughter , criminally negligent homicide , driving while under the influence of alcohol , and leaving the scene of an accident without reporting it , the DA said .
“ Drinking and driving is a deadly combination – one that has the potential of turning a vehicle into a lethal weapon , ” Brown said in a prepared statement .
“ In this case , the defendant is accused of getting behind the wheel while under the influence of alcohol , being unable to maintain proper control of his vehicle , and striking a pedestrian before speeding away without checking to see if she needed medical assistance . ”
Arraigned on Sept . 15 , Subryan was ordered held on $200 , 000 bail and is expected to return to Queens Supreme Court in Kew Gardens on Oct . 2 .
According to the criminal charges , two police officers from the 102nd Precinct were stationed on 117th Street at approximately 7 p . m . on Friday night , when they heard a loud bang behind them and one of the officers saw fluorescent garments fly in the air .
When the officers turned around , they allegedly saw Subryan speed past them .
He then allegedly ran a stop sign and red light when police began to pursue him , the DA said .
When cops stopped the car , police allegedly observed Subryan to have bloodshot watery eyes and slurred speech and smelled of alcohol , according to Brown .
Additionally , he was allegedly swaying and unsteady on his feet when he got out of his car – which police wrote had a dented hood , a cracked bumper and front headlight , and scuff marks on the hood , the NYPD said .
The driver was taken to the 112th Precinct , where police documented that he allegedly had a blood alcohol content of . 09 percent – above New York ’ s legal limit of . 08 percent .
A civilian witness at the scene also told police that they saw a car speed by and then saw Chohan , who was wearing bright yellow clothing and went into cardiac arrest , laying in the street , the DA said .
Video surveillance from the area showed the vehicle striking Chohan , causing her to become airborne , according to Brown .
The tragic event was one of three accidents involving pedestrians in the city last weekend .
A female pedestrian was struck and killed by a motorist when she was crossing Queens Plaza North near 27th Street a little before 10 p . m . on Friday , according to police .
The unidentified woman was pronounced dead at Mount Sinai Hospital .
Maria Dulce - Valencia , 27 , was also killed in a hit - and - run accident , police said .
She was hit around 5 a . m . Sunday morning at Bruckner Boulevard and Evergreen Avenue in the Bronx ’ s Soundview neighborhood .