http : / / nypost . com / 2013 / 04 / 12 / video - of - brooklyn - womans - fatal - shooting - is - played - at - trial - of - two - men - charged - in - rooftop - gunplay /
Video of Brooklyn woman's fatal shooting is played at trial of two men charged in rooftop gunplay
April 12 , 2013 | 4 : 00am
Rapt jurors yesterday watched surveillance video of the chilling moment that a Brooklyn mom was fatally struck by stray gunfire and slowly fell over into a pool of her own blood .
The disturbing evidence was made public at the trial of the two men accused of killing Zurana Horton from a Brownsville rooftop in 2011 .
Horton , 34 , was walking with one of her 12 children when Andrew Lopez , 20 , fired from the rooftop on the orders of his brother Jonathan Carrasquillo , 24 , prosecutors charge .
Also shot were a woman named Unique Armstead , who was walking near Horton , and an 11 - year - old girl who was passing by .
Yesterday , Armstead told jurors at the Brooklyn Supreme Court trial about the moment she was struck in the shooting , which was allegedly sparked by a gangland territorial beef .
"At the time , I thought it was a brick , but it was a bullet , " testified Armstead , who was walking with her son and who can be seen in the video stumbling against a building after she is shot .
When prosecutor Seth Goldman asked whether she shielded her son with her body , Armstead quietly answered , "Yes . "
"When me and my son were on the floor , I noticed Mrs . Horton fall down .
I honestly thought she was shot in the head .
There was blood . "
Armstead also testified that she heard a group of young men arguing about a gun shortly before the shooting , which matches up with prosecutors' claim that Carrasquillo ordered Lopez to the roof with the gun after a dispute between their 8 Block gang and the rival Young Guns crew .
The talk of guns had made Armstead nervous , especially since she was with her young son .
"I speed - walked to my son , and I held him .
I was scared .
I was trying to get out of harm's way , " she testified .
Armstead said she sought safety for herself and her son in a store , but when activity on the street seemed to have settled , she walked back outside - where a bullet went straight through her arm and she saw Horton killed .
Brooklyn Supreme Court Judge Vincent Del Giudice briefly sealed the courtroom at the request of prosecutors because their next witness had been threatened with death by the alleged shooter's brother .
The fearful witness had entered the courtroom with hood over his head , Del Giudice said when the courtroom was reopened .
"The man is an emotional wreck , " the judge said before postponing the man's testimony until Monday .