http : / / www . deadline . com / 2013 / 08 / ellen - degeneres - to - host - oscars /
Ellen DeGeneres To Host 86th Oscars
Friday August 2 , 2013 @ 8 : 13am PDT
Ellen DeGeneres just tweeted she will be hosting the Oscars this year .
It will be her second stint in the job , after hosting the 2007 ceremony and earning an Emmy nomination for it .
“ It ’ s official : I ’ m hosting the #Oscars !
I ’ d like to thank @TheAcademy , my wife Portia and , oh dear , there goes the orchestra “ , the comedian and talk show host said on her Twitter feed just now .
The announcement of DeGeneres as host comes just a couple of days after the election of Cheryl Boone Isaacs , only the third woman to head the Academy in its 86 - year history .
When she first hosted in 2007 it was noted that DeGeneres also became the first openly gay or lesbian host .
Of course DeGeneres , a double - digit Emmy winner , was also nominated for an Emmy for her Oscar - hosting stint in the now - defunct category of Outstanding Individual Performance in a Variety or Music Program .
She also famously hosted the Emmys in November 2001 after the show was canceled twice in the wake of the 9 / 11 tragedy .
She returned to host the Emmys in 2005 , just three weeks after Hurricane Katrina .
She also hosted the Grammys in 1996 and 1997 .
Here ’ s the Academy ’ s official release :
Television icon Ellen DeGeneres will return to host the Oscars® for a second time , producers Craig Zadan and Neil Meron announced today .
The Academy Awards® will be broadcast live on Oscar Sunday , March 2 , 2014 , on the ABC Television Network .
“ We are thrilled to have Ellen DeGeneres host the Oscars , ” said Zadan and Meron .
She is beloved everywhere and we expect that the audience at the Dolby Theatre , and in homes around the globe , will be as excited by this news as we are . ”
“ I am so excited to be hosting the Oscars for the second time .
You know what they say – the third time ’ s the charm , ” said DeGeneres .
“ It is an honor to welcome back Ellen DeGeneres as the host of the biggest entertainment celebration of the year , ” said Paul Lee , president , ABC Entertainment Group .
DeGeneres hosted the 79th Academy Awards in 2007 , for which she received a Primetime Emmy® nomination for “ Outstanding Individual Performance in a Variety or Music Program . ”