The major heavyweight year ended much as it started , with Wladimir Klitschko owning the division against overmatched opposition , and with Hasim Rahman being nothing but a shell of the man that once shockingly knocked out Lennox Lewis .
Klitschko dominated Rahman over six-plus rounds , knocking him down in a horribly one-sided sixth round and then landing enough hard blows early in the seventh for referee Tony Weeks to step in and call an end to it .
That should just about do it for the 36-year old Rahman , who has n't scored an impressive or notable win since 2005 .
Since that win over Monte Barrett , Rahman has gone 4-2-1 with a no-contest , beating nothing but club fighters , and often not even looking good doing that .
He 's had a long , strange career , and it looks like it 's over at the top tier .
He was so thoroughly overmatched tonight and unwilling to fight Klitschko that he 's clearly got nothing left as a top fighter .
Klitschko will move on and fight Alexander Povetkin , Chris Arreola or David Haye sometime in March or April , I 'd wager , and he should be a heavy , heavy favorite against any of them .
Arreola was hurt by Travis Walker , Povetkin just does n't strike me as capable of being a truly top-notch guy , and Haye was shaken by Monte Barrett a bit even though he did basically dominate .
I 'd love to see Klitschko-Haye simply because I think Haye will make Wlad work .
I said during the fight that this was yet another case of Klitschko fighting up or down to his opponent .
Haye would make him fight up .
Rahman had him fighting down .
The fight as also yet another example of why people crap on heavyweight fighting .
It was n't interesting , was n't competitive , and you clearly had one guy ( Rahman ) not in shape to fight for more than five rounds .
And worse than that , he did n't even fight .
In the sixth , he landed one punch .
He spent a lot of time laying on the ropes starting in the third round , barely punching at all .
The HBO team today was Lampley , Kellerman and Lennox , and they did their usual bit when they watch a heavyweight fight with Lennox in the booth , which means they made verbal love to Lewis while Lewis agreed with their assessment of him as better than everyone fighting today .
They 're right , of course -- but we all know that .
There was even one round where Lennox decided , out loud , that he is better than Wladimir Klitschko .
As always , an interesting group that teaches me a lot about the fights I 'm watching .