Bloomington Sam 's Club hit-run driver 's alcohol level : .41
The suspect in the death at a Sam 's Club had a blood- alcohol level more than five times the legal limit , according to charges , and he admitted he felt his car run over someone .
A man accused of running down and killing a woman in front of a Bloomington store had a blood-alcohol level that was more than five times the legal limit , according to charges filed Friday .
Anthony Phillip LaSalle , 36 , was charged with third-degree murder and three counts of criminal vehicular homicide. His blood-alcohol level was 0.41 percent , according to the charges .
The legal limit in Minnesota is 0.08 percent .
The charges say that he admitted to drinking a half-liter of vodka Wednesday and that he said he fled because he had been drinking .
LuAnn Marie Johnson , 66 , of Burnsville was struck as she walked into Sam 's Club at 200 W. American Blvd. on Wednesday night .
Police said she was in a marked crosswalk about 7 p.m. when a vehicle knocked her to the pavement .
The man driving momentarily stopped , and a man believed to be Johnson 's husband screamed , `` No , no , no ! '' and tried to prevent the car from driving off .
Instead , LaSalle gunned the engine and drove over Johnson , hitting her and dragging her 10 feet as he sped away , a witness said .
Johnson died at Hennepin County Medical Center in Minneapolis .
The car then sideswiped a parked vehicle before leaving the parking lot and heading west on American Boulevard .
Police stopped LaSalle , of Bloomington , when he hit another vehicle two blocks away at the intersection of American Boulevard and Lyndale Avenue .
According to the charges , police stopped LaSalle 's vehicle and tried to make contact , but LaSalle refused to comply , saying officers `` would need to kill '' him .
Officers used a Taser to subdue him , said Sgt. Marty Earley .
LaSalle was taken to Fairview Southdale Hospital in Edina to treat a cut on his head and to take a blood sample to measure his alcohol content , the charges said .