http : / / www . hp . com / hpinfo / newsroom / press / 2007 / 071112xa . html
HP to Expand Data Center Services with Acquisition of Global Consulting Company EYP Mission Critical Facilities
Nov . 12 , 2007
HP today announced that it has signed a definitive agreement to acquire EYP Mission Critical Facilities Inc . ( EYP MCF ) , a consulting company specializing in strategic technology planning , design and operations support for large - scale data centers .
By acquiring EYP MCF , HP will be better able to help customers to transform their data centers , optimize energy efficiency and position them for future business growth .
Financial terms of the transaction were not disclosed .
Headquartered in New York , EYP MCF has approximately 350 employees with 13 offices in the United States and the U . K .
The firm provides mission - critical services to enterprises around the world in business sectors including financial services , telecommunications , technology , broadcast , manufacturing and healthcare , as well as numerous federal , state and county government agencies .
From data centers and command and control centers , to trading floors and supercomputing sites , EYP MCF has designed hundreds of technology - intensive , high - performance facilities where monitoring , operational and energy efficiencies are top - priority business requirements .
EYP MCF ’ s capabilities – particularly its expertise in energy - efficient operations – complement HP ’ s extensive Data Center Services and cost - saving power and cooling solutions , such as Dynamic Smart Cooling .
“ The data center is the foundation of IT for enterprises , an essential building block for driving business growth and adapting to changing business objectives , ” said John McCain , senior vice president and general manager , HP Services .
“ Acquiring EYP Mission Critical Facilities boosts HP ’ s ability to help customers transform their data centers and build dynamic computing environments from the ground up . ”
Peter Gross , chief executive officer of EYP MCF , said , “ Worldwide data center requirements are rapidly growing , with significant year - over - year increases in power consumption , which is fueling demand for energy - efficient power and cooling strategies .
HP and EYP Mission Critical Facilities will drive innovation by integrating IT infrastructure into the planning and design of the data center , enabling the customer ’ s whole organization to be more energy efficient and adaptive . ”
The transaction is subject to certain closing conditions and is expected to be completed within HP ’ s first fiscal quarter .
Media teleconference
HP will hold a media teleconference to discuss the announcement at 7 : 15 - 7 : 45 a . m . PT today .
Dial - in number : +1 877 268 9324 .
Conference ID : 24256919 .
A replay of the call will be available later in the day .
About EYP Mission Critical Facilities , Inc .
EYP Mission Critical Facilities , Inc . ( www . eypmcf . com ) is a consulting firm whose unique approach to achieving clients ’ energy - efficient operational continuity is based upon the integration of strategic technology planning , innovative design and on - site support .
Through developing proprietary products and processes , authoring technical white papers , and presenting at international conferences , EYP MCF is recognized as a worldwide thought leader in the mission - critical industry .
About HP
HP focuses on simplifying technology experiences for all of its customers – from individual consumers to the largest businesses .
With a portfolio that spans printing , personal computing , software , services and IT infrastructure , HP is among the world ’ s largest IT companies , with revenue totaling $100 . 5 billion for the four fiscal quarters ended July 31 , 2007 .
More information about HP ( NYSE : HPQ ) is available at http : / / www . hp . com .