http : / / www . nydailynews . com / new - york / brooklyn / video - shows - moments - brooklyn - mom - 12 - article - 1 . 1314511
Last moments of Brooklyn mother of 12 killed in crossfire caught on tape
Zurana Horton , 34 , was killed on Oct . 21 , 2011 while walking near an intersection in Brownsville after 2 p . m .
Andrew Lopez , 20 , is the accused gunman who sprayed gunfire from a rooftop .
THURSDAY , APRIL 11 , 2013 , 9 : 53 PM
A shocking video released for the first time Thursday captures the moment a Brooklyn mother of 12 was killed in a gang shootout as she picked her daughter up from school .
The dramatic footage was shown at the trial of two local toughs charged with killing Zurana Horton , 34 , on Oct . 21 , 2011 .
At 2 : 18 p . m . , Horton and two other moms are seen approaching a Brownsville intersection as a yellow school bus rolls up .
A commotion breaks out as the three mothers and two children press up against a storefront for safety .
Horton pushes a child out of the way , grips her chest , then collapses to the ground next to a pool of her own blood .
"I saw her fall back . . .
I saw blood coming from her , " testified Unique Armstead , the mother in the video wearing a white jacket , seen enveloping herself around her son as they dive to the ground just feet from where Horton was killed .
Armstead was shot in the left arm .
Andrew Lopez , 20 , is accused of firing indiscriminately at rival gang members from a nearby rooftop .
His half - brother , Jonathan Carrasquillo , 24 , who allegedly instructed Lopez to take care of their enemies , is also on trial for murder .
Armstead , 32 , testified that after she overheard someone say "he has a gun , " she took refuge inside a corner bodega with her son , who was celebrating his 11th birthday that day .
They stepped out less than a minute later when it looked like the threat was over , she said , but then shots started to ring out .
"I thought it was a brick but it was a bullet , " Armstead testified .
"I told my son , 'I think I'm shot . ' "
An 11 - year - old girl , Cheanne McKnight , was grazed in the cheek .
Lopez is accused of spraying 13 shots on a Friday afternoon , just as schools were being let out .
Horton's senseless death shook the city and highlighted the scourge of gun violence that plagues its hardscrabble neighborhoods .
The two juries hearing the case - one for each defendant - showed little emotion as the disturbing tape was played in court .
Horton's mother , Denise Peace , said she is now caring for five of her daughter's orphaned kids while their father is looking after seven others .
Of the alleged gunman , she said , "He's a menace to society . "
The trial will resume Monday with testimony from a man who purportedly told prosecutors he has been threatened with death by Lopez's brother .
After the witness , who covered his face with a hoodie , was heard in an empty courtroom , the judge ruled he can testify in open court .
But Justice Vincent DelGiudice made clear the witness is reluctant to take the stand .
"The man is petrified , " he said .
"The man is an emotional wreck . "