http : / / www . nwemail . co . uk / news / provisional - trial - date - set - for - millom - double - murder - accused - 1 . 1062072 ? referrerPath=n
PROVISIONAL TRIAL DATE SET FOR MILLOM DOUBLE MURDER ACCUSED
Last updated at 11 : 24 , Tuesday , 18 June 2013
A PROVISIONAL trial date has been set in the case of a son accused of killing his mother , sister and pet dog in Millom .
A preliminary hearing for John Jenkin , 23 , charged with the murders of his mother Alice McMeekin , 58 , and sister Katie Jenkin , 20 , was heard in Preston Crown Court this morning .
Jenkin was due to appear via videolink from HMP Preston , but did not do so as he was considered a risk to his own safety and that of other people , according to crown prosecutor Susan Carter .
The case was heard in his absence , and a provisional trial date was set for October 28 with a duration of three days .
The bodies of Ms McMeekin and Miss Jenkin , were found in their house in Newton Street , Millom , on Saturday about 8 . 40am .
An earlier hearing at Furness Magistrates' Court , in Barrow , heard they had "severe head injuries" .
The family's border collie , named Fenn , was also found beaten to death in the backyard of the house .
Jenkin was arrested at Millom Pier around 9 . 35am .
He faces one charge of causing unnecessary suffering to an animal in relation to the dog's death .
No application for bail was made at yesterday's hearing and no plea was entered .
A plea and case management hearing will be held on September 6 .
Judge Anthony Russell QC asked for psychiatric reports to be completed on Jenkin before the next hearing .
At the earlier hearing on Monday he was deemed too much of a risk to appear in the dock at Furness Magistrates' Court .
Jenkin was brought to the magistrates' court building by a secure van on Monday , but did not appear in the dock and no pleas were entered .
Miss Rachel Bates , court clerk , said : "He is at risk of causing harm to himself and causing harm to others as well .
" ( Custody ) are having difficulties restraining him and they can't move him from the cell .
"There are extreme difficulties and for the safety of everybody , including the defendant , the best approach is ( to hold the hearing ) in the defendant's absence . "
The court heard police were called after hearing an argument at the family's home at 8 . 39am on Saturday .
Seven of Jenkin's friends attended court as a show of support .
Jenkin had been living in South Wales with his mum for the past three years and they had moved back to Millom around six weeks ago .