http : / / collider . com / hunger - games - catching - fire - gary - ross - release - date /
Director Gary Ross Still in Negotiations for HUNGER GAMES Sequel , CATCHING FIRE ; Release Date May Be in Jeopardy
Posted 1 year , 160 days ago [ downloaded on 2 October 2013 ]
As I said many times in my review , Gary Ross ‘ direction was the strongest element of The Hunger Games .
But for Lionsgate , the movie ’ s ability to make a crazy amount of money was the strongest element of The Hunger Games .
Now , THR is reporting that Ross and the studio are locked in tense negotiations over his return to direct the sequel , Catching Fire .
Lead actors Jennifer Lawrence , Josh Hutcherson , and Liam Hemsworth are already signed for Catching Fire ( and I imaging they ’ re also signed for the third installment , Mockingjay ) , but Ross doesn ’ t have a deal in place .
He was paid $3 million for co - writing and directing the film plus 5 percent on the back - end .
Unsurprisingly , he would like a raise on the sequel .
Hit the jump for more including why Catching Fire might not make its November 22 , 2013 release date .
According to THR , negotiations on the first film were tough because Ross already had a successful , Oscar - nominated movie to his name ( Seabiscuit ) , but Lionsgate had never paid a hefty filmmaker salary before ( Hunger Games was the highest - budgeted project in the studio ’ s history ) .
Now that Hunger Games will undoubtedly be one of the highest - grossing films of the year , Ross has some leverage , but current franchise trends aren ’ t moving in his favor .
Other major franchises have shown no hesitation in constantly switching out directors .
After all , it ’ s the title that draws people into the theaters , not the filmmaker .
Harry Potter went through four directors as did Twilight , and Marvel has basically made it a policy never to rehire any of their directors .
The studio ’ s highest priority is making sure to keep the franchise flowing without delay , and prolonged negotiations with Ross may cause a delay .
There ’ s also the added problem of Ross taking time to revise Simon Beaufoy ‘ s script for Catching Fire .
Lionsgate is also facing an issue with the sequel ’ s scheduled November 22 , 2013 release date .
Fox could stymie Lionsgate ’ s plans by exercising Lawrence ’ s option to do the sequel for X - Men : First Class .
Sources tell THR that Fox ’ s option would take priority over Lionsgate ’ s .
Lionsgate is aiming to get Catching Fire into production by the fall , but Fox already has their director ready to go ( Matthew Vaughn is signed to return for First Class 2 ) .
However , First Class 2 doesn ’ t have a release date .
Ross ’ does have a few counters against Lionsgate .
First , he ’ s a known quantity and has established a relationship with the cast and crew .
He also delivered a critically well - received movie .
Granted , The Hunger Games would have crushed at the box office no matter what , but the positive response indicates that he ’ s now in higher demand for other properties .
It ’ s an impressive boost for a director who hadn ’ t helmed a project since Seabiscuit in 2003 .
Despite the acrimony , a source tells THR that the two sides will eventually make a deal :
Ultimately , it will be difficult , and yet everybody will do the sane thing , which is to work it out , ” says one .
“ Everybody will end up unhappy in their own way .
It ’ s just the nature of the beast . ”
The alternative is to throw 24 directors into an arena and have them fight to the death .
And if you ’ re having trouble imagining other directors taking over the franchise , take a look at these fake posters for The Hunger Games .