Hansbrough breaks UNC scoring record
The Tar Heels and the Purple Aces play a game , but the attention is on record-setting UNC senior Tyler Hansbrough .
Since the day he stepped foot on North Carolina 's campus , forward Tyler Hansbrough has been working to diversify his offensive resume by trying to extend his shooting range .
But it seemed appropriate that when it came time to break UNC 's three-decades-old career scoring record during the top-ranked Tar Heels ' 91-73 basketball victory over Evansville on Thursday night , the senior went back to an old staple : a workmanlike power move .
With 7:42 left in the first half at the Smith Center , Hansbrough muscled around Purple Aces forwards James Haarsma and Pieter van Tongeren to bank in a shot off the glass and score his 10th point of the game and 2,292nd point of his career .
That basket broke the mark of 2,290 that point guard Phil Ford set from 1974 to 1978 .
Hansbrough finished with 20 points and now has 2,302 for his career .
`` It was very fitting -- three guys on him , he was moving to the basket , kind of off-balance , he banks it in with his soft hands , '' said Gene Hansbrough , who surprised his son by attending the game .
`` It was a perfect shot for Tyler to break the record on . ''
Point guard Ty Lawson also chipped in 16 points for the Tar Heels ( 10-0 ) , though coach Roy Williams looked frustrated at times by his team 's performance , particularly after Evansville 's Shy Ely ended the first half with a dunk .
That led the coach to stomp off the court despite the fact that his team led by 18 points .
The night , however , belonged to Hansbrough , who accepted the game ball and an embrace from Ford , now an assistant coach for the NBA 's Charlotte Bobcats , immediately after setting the record .
After the game , Ford pressed his hands together and bowed to the big man at mid-court , congratulating him as fans in the sellout crowd -- some of whom held signs reading `` Phil Ford 2,290 '' on one side and `` Tyler 2,291 + '' on the other -- were on their feet for a rousing ovation .
`` It 's an honor to be compared in the same breath at Tyler , '' Ford said later .
`` When I see how hard he plays , and how he listens to Coach Williams -- as a player , that 's why I tried to do . ''
Then Hansbrough -- who followed his record-breaking bucket with a missed dunk attempt that probably will make the team blooper reel -- choked up as he watched a montage of current and former players congratulate him on the accomplishment .
`` I got a little emotional , because you may not know all those guys [ in the video ] , but you 've got a connection , because you played here and you 're part of something that I consider a family , '' he said .
Hansbrough , who also grabbed nine rebounds , had already secured his place in Tar Heels history -- and in the retired jersey portion of the Smith Center rafters , near Ford -- by earning consensus national player-of-the-year honors last season .
Breaking such a long-standing record adds to his still-blooming legend .
Ford passed the likes of Lennie Rosenbluth , Charles Scott and Larry Miller because they could play varsity basketball for only three years .
Antawn Jamison , Michael Jordan and Rashad McCants failed to pass Ford because they stayed just three seasons .
Then came Hansbrough , the sometimes awkward-looking big man from Poplar Bluff , Mo. , who opted to forgo going to the NBA after his freshman , sophomore and junior seasons in order to try to win an NCAA title .
Although he said he was a little nervous straying from the lane his rookie season , he actually scored his first Tar Heels bucket on Nov. 19 , 2005 , when he led a three-on-two fast break against Gardner-Webb that finished with his jump shot in the lane .
And he has barely slowed since , topping UNC 's chart for all-time free-throw attempts -- he passed the 1,000 mark Thursday night -- en route to his latest record .
`` I wanted it on a 3 , '' Hansbrough said of the record-setting bucket , `` but in a game , I realize you have to do what you have to do . ''
Which in his case , means playing with power and honing his improving finesse .
If he remains healthy , the combination probably will help him become the ACC 's all-time leading scorer , as well .
Former Duke star J.J. Redick holds that mark with 2,769 points .
`` I do n't put anything past Tyler .
If somebody tells me he 's going to break the NBA scoring record -- boy , that 's going to be hard -- but you never say never when it comes to Tyler , '' Gene Hansbrough said .
`` He 's got a strong will . ''
Danny Green ( 14 points ) became the 61st player in UNC history to score 1,000 points when he buried a 3-pointer in the second half .