http : / / www . nydailynews . com / news / politics / president - barack - obama - overturns - bush - administration - ruling - endangered - species - act - article - 1 . 365994
President Barack Obama overturns Bush administration ruling on Endangered Species Act
WEDNESDAY , MARCH 4 , 2009 , 10 : 53 AM
President Barack Obama announced plans Tuesday to resume full scientific reviews of projects that might harm endangered wildlife and plants .
The president signed a memorandum putting on hold a Bush administration regulation allowing agencies to avoid scientific reviews in endangered species decisions .
During a visit to the Interior Department , Obama said the review process had been undermined by past administrations .
"For more than three decades , the Endangered Species Act has successfully protected our nation's most threatened wildlife .
We should be looking for ways to improve it , not weaken it , " Obama said .
Obama's action puts the Bush regulation on hold until the Interior and Commerce departments complete a review .
While on the campaign trail , Obama said he would fight to maintain the protections of the Endangered Species Act and work to undo what was then a proposal by the Bush administration .
The rule , finalized in December , made optional the mandatory , independent consultations federal scientists have performed for 35 years on projects .
The reviews have been blamed by developers and federal agencies for delays and cost increases .
Instead , the Bush rule allowed federal agencies to decide for themselves whether projects such as dams and power plants posed risks to endangered species or the places they live .
These changes , which were completed in a relatively short time , were described at the time by the Bush administration as minor .
But Democrats and environmentalists have argued that the regulations overhauled long - standing policy .
Democratic leaders in Congress who have been attempting to reverse the rule applauded the president's decision .
"I wholeheartedly support the president's proposal to restore the protections for endangered species that the Bush administration spent so many years trying to undermine , " said Rep . Nick Rahall , D - W . Va . , who chairs the House Natural Resources Committee .
Rahall is pushing to overturn the rule through a congressional resolution .
There is also a provision tucked into the $410 billion spending bill the House passed last week that would allow the Interior and Commerce secretaries to withdraw regulations .
Since the rule took effect before Obama was sworn in , overturning it through regulation would require a lengthy review process .
Industry and business representatives said restoring scientific input would only delay projects , including those that will be funded by the recently passed stimulus package .
But Obama , in announcing his decision , said that economic recovery and protecting the environment are not at odds with one another .
"We can grow our economy today , " Obama said , "and preserve the environment for ourselves and our children and our grandchildren . "