http : / / voices . yahoo . com / president - obama - overturns - endangered - species - rule - 2815333 . html
President Obama Overturns Endangered Species Rule Bush Instated
Former President Bush Had Enacted Legislation that Could Have Put More Animals in Danger
Mar 4 , 2009
In a move that could anger some people on the other side of the aisle , President Obama overturned an administration regulation that could have possibly weakened the stability of the Endangered Species Act .
Before former President George W . Bush left office , he passed legislation that would have allowed federal agencies to skip consultations before launching projects that could affect endangered wildlife .
This could have put more animals at risk , and while it would have eliminated a lot of red tape in the process , it could have been more risky to endangered animals than necessary .
The problem with the legislation by Bush was that it was taking scientists out of the equation , and basically removing the most knowledgeable people from the equation .
It would have given a lot of additional power to federal agencies , but stripped a lot of the rights that the Endangered Species Act gives to the animals which it seeks to protect .
While the act is not perfect in its implementation or enforcement , undermining by removing any "teeth" that it might have was a big step in the wrong direction .
President Obama has already received immense support from environmentalists for this move , and by overturning something the Bush administration put in place , he showed that he is also willing to step up to the plate on issues such as these .
By flat out declaring that it is necessary to ensure that no harm will come to endangered species as the result of new projects , it gives the Endangered Species Act more strength , and does a lot to further the cause of environmentalists looking to protect these animals .
With scientists being put back into the equation , it gives a lot of hope that the threatened wildlife will stand a better chance at surviving over the long term .
It was a questionable move when Bush made the move to approve the last - minute legislation during his second term , and while there were a lot of objections , nothing could really be done at the time .
With an eye toward the future , President Obama made a really smart decision by bringing scientists back into the endangered species fold , and surely helped to save a number of animals that could have otherwise been put at risk .