http : / / www . cinemablend . com / new / Hunger - Games - Director - Gary - Ross - Still - Negotiations - Sequel - 30272 . html
The Hunger Games Director Gary Ross Still In Negotiations For The Sequel
published : 2012 - 04 - 04 11 : 47 : 35
During the promotional period for The Hunger Games everyone involved made sure to note how different the franchise was from Twilight .
While it may have seemed like a silly thing to do given Twilight's success , but the truth is that comparisons were making male audiences a bit shaky about the film , as that demographic didn't want to spend two and a half hours watching a tween romance ( and Hunger Games is definitely not that ) .
The film obviously wasn't hurt by this strategy , as it went on to shatter records and become the third highest grossing opening weekend title of all time .
But while the story of The Hunger Games may have no comparison to Twilight , it turns out that action behind the scenes may duplicate it .
While the first movie was a huge success , THR is saying that director Gary Ross is still in negotiations to direct the sequel , Catching Fire .
The stars of the film - the ones that survived , anyway - are already contractually obligated to appear in the second movie , but things haven't been going to great on the filmmaker side .
The trade says that Ross' negotiations with LionsGate the first time around weren't so hot either , an inside source calling it "a terrible experience , " as the studio doesn't usually pay "seasoned - filmmaker fees" to even seasoned filmmakers like Ross . ?
Because of The Hunger Games' big box office numbers , Ross is expecting a raise for his work on the movie ( he was given $3 million upfront and 5% on the backend with his first deal ) but it's unclear if the studio will give it to him .
Much like the Twilight franchise , or even Harry Potter , it's entirely possible that LionsGate will choose not to pay Ross and instead go with another filmmaker who is demanding less money .
A script has already been written for Catching Fire , from Simon Beaufoy , but Ross has not yet had the chance to revise it .
The one big card that Ross has in his back pocket is that The Hunger Games was better received than any of the Twilight films , which could convince the brass to try and keep some consistency .
Whether it will play in his favor is still an unknown at this point .
So what do you think ?
Should Ross be brought back for the next movie or should they go with someone else's vision ?
Leave your thoughts , ideas and desires in the comments section below .