http : / / www . zdnet . com / blog / btl / hps - mark - hurd - thoughts - on - consolidation / 6978
HP's Mark Hurd : Thoughts on consolidation
Summary : During his keynote at Oracle OpenWorld , HP CEO Mark Hurd gave his views on market consolidation .
It's an appropriate setting given Oracle has made 41 acquisitions in 45 months totalling .
November 12 , 2007 - - 18 : 19 GMT ( 10 : 19 PST )
During his keynote at Oracle OpenWorld , HP CEO Mark Hurd gave his views on market consolidation .
It's an appropriate setting given Oracle has made 41 acquisitions in 45 months totalling .
HP is no slouch at acquisitions in its post - Compaq era , with more than 20 in the last few years , including Mercury for $4 . 5 billion for and most recently Opsware for $1 . 6 billion .
Today , HP announced a small acquisition , EYP Mission Critical Facilities , a datacenter consulting service with 350 employees , while Oracle took a day off from its pursuits , which recently included BEA .
Hurd sees continuing industry consolidation and vertical integration going forward , which is no surprise .
Lately , some mid - size companies being bought out by private equity firms , and the larger companies are still on the hunt .
Today , IBM took out Cognos for $5 billion .
But he seems to suggest that the market is shaping up for some very large scale transactions in the next few years .
"In the end , math wins .
A handful of players have in excess of $100 billion in cash revenue .
We'll see more consolidation , not less .
At the same time , we are all getting a push from an IT perspective to do more standardization and to have fewer suppliers , " Hurd said .
Over time , fewer suppliers means moving from the large buying the small - and medium - sized to the large munching on the large , more mergers of near equals , carving up the market into fewer fiefdoms within the complex bounds of global regulatory approval .
"It could happen in two or three years if the right alignment of players occurs , " he added .
Hurd didn't elaborate on the "right alignment of players , " and made a point of saying that he wasn't making a prediction .
He explained that companies with lots of cash can pay dividends to shareholders , buy back stock or make acquisitions .
"You have to measure the value of the three choices , and in many cases potential M&A activities will rise to the top . "
"You can figure it out as well as I can , " Hurd told the rapt OpenWorld crowd .
"The numbers won't mislead you . "
Hurd is well known for his acumen with the numbers , but gave no further insights .
Following the trajectory of the numbers for a moment , it's not that far fetched to see HP and Oracle in a consolidation supernova if the planets align in a certain way .
Or , how about SAP and IBM , or some other combination .
Or Cisco and HP .
Or Microsoft and ? ? ?
Take your pick .
It's just ungoverned speculation , but consolidation in maturing market tends toward singularity .
Of course , that could be the beginning of the end for those long established brands , as Google or a company no one had heard of rears its head and completely changes the rules of the game .