http : / / www . ucsusa . org / news / press _ release / interior - overturns - bush - esa - 0223 . html
April 28 , 2009  
Interior , Commerce Departments Overturn Rule That Cut Science Out of Endangered Species Act
Statement by Francesca Grifo
Today , Interior Secretary Ken Salazar rescinded eleventh - hour Bush administration changes to Endangered Species Act regulations that allowed federal agencies to decide for themselves if their own projects—such as roads and dams—would threaten imperiled species .
Federal agencies again will be required to consult with expert biologists at the U . S . Fish and Wildlife Service or National Marine Fisheries Service before undertaking or permitting new projects .
The rule change was just one of several controversial Bush administration actions that undermined the scientific foundation of the Endangered Species Act , according to the Union of Concerned Scientists ( UCS ) .
In a related story , 1 , 300 biologists and three scientific societies representing some 20 , 000 scientists sent separate letters last Friday to the Interior and Commerce departments urging them to overturn the last - minute Bush rule changes .
Below is a statement by Francesca Grifo , director of UCS's Scientific Integrity Program :
"Several last - minute Bush administration regulatory changes have undermined the scientific foundation of the Endangered Species Act , and today the Obama administration has begun to repair the damage .
The message from tens of thousands of scientists around the country is clear : These unwarranted changes fundamentally undermine our ability to protect imperiled plants and animals .
"Today , the Obama administration restored critical checks and balances to protect our nation's biodiversity .
Interior Secretary Salazar's decision is a long - awaited first step .
But there is much more to be done .
The Obama administration must thoroughly review how science is used to ensure that our nation's imperiled species have a chance to survive—and thrive . "