http : / / www . ameinfo . com / 72760 . html
Iranian earthquake tremor hits Dubai
Sunday , November 27 - 2005 at 16 : 12
Tremors from an earthquake registering 6 . 1 on the Richter scale 60km south west of Bandar Abbas in Iran were felt in Dubai today , prompting the evacuation of high - rise buildings on the Sheikh Zayed Road and in the Dubai Media City .
Some eye witnesses reported sensing a definite tremor for one minute , although others told AME Info they had not felt anything .
UAE authorities are now said to be contacting the US Geological Survey for details of this seismic activity , which is already listed on the USGS website , www . earthquake . usgs . gov , under the section for recent activity ( see address below ) .
The website reported 65 responses from Dubai .
The earth tremor hit a triangular area between Ras Al Khaimah , Al Ain and Dubai .
This follows warnings from local UAE academics that earthquake faultlines in Iran could have serious implications for building stability in the UAE .
Seismic risk
Scientists such as Dr Azm Al - Homoud from the American University of Sharjah have been trying to educate engineers , governments and the construction industry about the risks .
Today's incident is bound to prompt a more serious interest in their work .
However , high - rise buildings in the UAE all conform to international construction standards and are designed to withstand the sort of minor tremors reported today , although buildings are always thoroughly checked after such events to ensure their integrity .
The Dubai authorities are expected to move swiftly to reassure residents that there has been no damage to persons or property .
The emirate is not believed to have had such a tremor in living memory , and clearly some people have been shaken .
Such tremors are common in many major cities of the world , but Dubai residents have not felt them before and will be looking for answers to the question of likely future seismic activity in the emirate .
But there appears no reason for alarm , as the earthquake was in Iran .