Last May , a stray bullet killed 10-year-old Kathina Thomas as she played on the front steps of her home on Albany 's First Street
Her death sparked outrage , and even prompted the community to come together to get guns off Albany streets .
Now the case is back in the spotlight as the 16-year-old accused of firing the fatal shot , Jermayne Timmons , goes to trial .
More than 100 potential jurors walked into the Albany County Courthouse Monday .
Inside , men and women from all walks of life were slowly eliminated , answering questions such as `` had you heard , seen or read anything about the death of Thomas ? ''
Such a query would be difficult thing to say `` no '' to , given all the media attention that the 10-year-old 's death and Timmons ' subsequent arrest brought .
By 5:00pm Monday , selection was winding down for the day as five were already picked for the jury .
Timmons remained at the courthouse along with defense attorney Peter Lynch and Albany County District Attorney Dave Rossi .
`` The evidence in this case is gon na ' show factually that Jermayne is not the person who caused [ Thomas ' ] death , '' Lynch told local media Monday .
However , Lynch has a tough job ahead of him in proving that his client did not pull the trigger and , in the end , kill Thomas .
This , when police have released an alleged confession from Timmons , and a letter of apology that he is said to have written to the girl 's mother that reads , `` I am so sorry that the gun I shot is the gun that could have takeing ( sic . ) your baby girl away from you , ''
King provided an explanation , saying , `` The so-called apology note was posed more in the question of if [ Timmons ] , in some way , could have been responsible , he would have been apologetic for it , ''
None of Thomas ' family members were present in the courthouse Monday , only Timmons ' friends and relatives .
Also absent were those who are expected to be called on as witnesses .
In an unprecedented move , Albany County Assistant District Attorney Dave Rossi asked the media to keep the identities of certain witnesses quiet .
`` If we start seeing names in the paper or on the news on day one , I think it 's gon na ' make it more difficult for us to have witnesses in the seat on day two , three and four , '' he said .
One of the witnesses that can be talked about is Jermayne Timmons ' own mother , who is expected to take the stand .
Jury selection will likely go on until sometime Tuesday .
It was more than seven months ago when that errant bullet killed Kathina Thomas .
The 10-year-old was shot on the night of May 29th while she was playing outside her First Street home .
Less than two weeks later , Jermayne Timmons was arrested and charged with the shooting .
It was discovered shortly after the arrest that Timmons had written an apology letter to the mother of Kathina Thomas , saying the bullet was not meant to hit the girl .
In response to the fallout over Thomas ' death , and further gun violence in Albany , District Attorney David Soares announced a gun buyback program in mid-June , offering up gift cards to anyone who brought in a gun .