http : / / www . reuters . com / article / 2013 / 08 / 02 / us - oscars - degeneres - idUSBRE9710UQ20130802
Comedian Ellen DeGeneres picked to host 2014 Oscars
Fri Aug 2 , 2013 6 : 50pm EDT
Comedian Ellen DeGeneres will make her second appearance as an Academy Awards host next year , organizers said on Friday , in a move widely seen as a less provocative choice for Hollywood's highest honors after a ribald performance by Seth MacFarlane .
DeGeneres , the star of her own daytime talk show "Ellen , " first hosted the Oscars in 2007 , becoming only the second woman to fill that exalted role alone , after Whoopi Goldberg .
"I am so excited to be hosting the Oscars for the second time , " DeGeneres said in a statement .
"You know what they say - the third time's the charm . "
"I'd like to thank @TheAcademy , my wife Portia and , oh dear , there goes the orchestra , " the comedian added on Twitter .
DeGeneres , 55 , earned an Emmy nomination for her performance in 2007 in which she departed from traditional Oscar hosting decorum and ventured into the audience for spot gags , at one point handing director Martin Scorsese a script of her own .
"Choosing DeGeneres , known for her kindler , gentler humor , signals that the Academy's next awards show will have a decidedly different tone than the 85th Academy Awards , " trade magazine The Hollywood Reporter wrote .
DeGeneres also earned praise for her performance as the host of TV's Emmy awards in 2001 , which was twice delayed because of the September 11 attacks , memorably lightening the somber mood by asking , "What would bug the Taliban more than seeing a gay woman in a suit surrounded by Jews ? "
The announcement of DeGeneres as host also comes on the heels of Hollywood marketing executive Cheryl Boone Isaacs being elected as the first African American president of the 6 , 000 - member Academy , which has made an effort to diversify its ranks after coming under fire for being too male , old and white .
Trade publication Variety saw the choice of DeGeneres as a continuation of the Academy's "Year of the Woman , " writing that the Oscars "will put women in the driver's seat . "