http : / / www . dailymail . co . uk / news / article - 2308160 / Zurana - Horton - Jury - sees - horrific - moment - young - mother - gunned - broad - daylight - stray - gunfire . html
Jury shown horrific moment innocent mother is shot dead shielding her child when she's caught up in gang attack as she picks up daughter from school
Zurana Horton , 34 , a mother of 12 , was fatally shot in 2011 while picking up her daughter , 11 , from school
A second mother who testified was shot in her arm as well as an 11 - year - old girl
Testimony by a second witness has been delayed after allegedly threatened with death by the brother of the accused gunman
UPDATED : 19 : 14 GMT , 12 April 2013
Jurors on Thursday watched video capturing the horrific moment a mother was gunned down in broad daylight while picking up her 11 - year - old daughter outside a New York City school .
Behind her another mother was seen shot in her arm before staggering against a wall while trying to hide her own son from the alleged gang members' stray gunfire from a nearby rooftop .
This frightening surveillance video was presented at the Brooklyn Supreme Court on Thursday during the trial of two men accused in killing Zurana Horton , 34 , a mother of 12 , in 2011 and wounding two others , including an 11 - year - old girl .
Prosecutors say Andrew Lopez , 20 , an alleged 8 Block gang member fired the shots meant for rival gang members from the Howard Projects while his brother Jonathan Carrasquillo , 24 , gave the orders .
'When me and my son were on the floor , I noticed Mrs Horton fall down .
I honestly thought she was shot in the head .
There was blood , ' said Unique Armstead , who was shot along with an 11 - year - old girl nearby according to the New York post .
Mrs Armstead says that just before the shots were fired she passed a group of young men arguing on the street about a gun .
Her testimony matched prosecutors' claims .
Feeling uneasy , she says 'I speed - walked to my son , and I held him .
I was scared .
I was trying to get out of harm's way . '
She took her son into a nearby store to wait it out .
When the fight appeared to die down , she says she slipped back onto the street with her son by her side when a stray bullet shot straight into her arm .
She next saw Horton fall down dead .
Mrs Horton is seen sprawled out on the sidewalk beside a pool of blood on the surveillance video .
Witnesses are seen cowering in fear around her .
'At the time , I thought it was a brick , but it was a bullet , ' Mrs Armstead said of her injury .
Lopez , who was 18 at the time of the shooting , confessed to being the rooftop sniper according to initial reports by the New York Daily News .
The gunman said the shooting near Public School 298 in Brownsville had stemmed from a turf war between two Brooklyn gangs .
Lopez told police that 'he did not mean to shoot the ladies , ' the source said .
A second witness had expected to testify in the shooting on Thursday as well but after threatened with death by the brother of the alleged gunman , their testimony has been delayed until Monday .
'The man is an emotional wreck , ' Brooklyn Supreme Court Judge Vincent Del Giudice said , according to the Post .
Lopez has been linked to a Brooklyn gang known as '8 Block , ' who police say are engaged in a turf battle with the neighboring Young Guns gang .
NYPD Commissioner Raymond Kelly said : 'We're certainly pleased with the fact that the investigation has identified Mr . Lopez and he's made statements and apparently made a full confession , ' the Daily News reported .
Lopez told police he was aiming for rival gang members when a stray bullet hit the mother of 13 who was collecting her children from school .
Horton was planning to marry her boyfriend on Valentine's Day in 2012 .
Also arrested were Lopez' half - brother , 17 - year - old Kristian , and Carrasquillo .
All three live in a fifth - floor apartment inside 1800 Pitkin Ave . , the same building from where the gunman opened fire , police said .
That apartment building is said to be where 8 Block got their name , the Post reported in 2011 .
Carrasquillo was charged with murder , and Kristian Lopez was arrested for possession of a baseball bat , police said .
Andrew Lopez had a previous arrest for walking down Pitkin Ave . brandishing a loaded gun three years ago , sources told the Daily News .
The shooting frenzy in which at least 12 shots were fired began just 13 minutes after school finished .
Cheanne McKnight , 11 , is recovering from a graze wound to her cheek , while a 31 - year - old Brooklyn mom was shot in the arm .
Police recovered 12 9 - mm shell casings on the roof of the Pitkin Avenue apartment and the sidewalk .