http : / / content . time . com / time / nation / article / 0 , 8599 , 2016785 , 00 . html
The Polygamist Prophet : One Step Closer to a Texas Court
Wednesday , Sept . 08 , 2010
The appearance was brief , perhaps two or three minutes , but the presence of Warren Jeffs in a Salt Lake City area courtroom this week revealed a man who has changed in the four years since his arrest .
The man who was once on the FBI's Most Wanted List looked thinner , his hair , now close - cropped , dusted with gray , and he wore a pair of frameless glasses that seemed to emphasize his most distinctive feature , his wide , compelling eyes .
Jeffs has reportedly suffered from illness brought on by extended periods of prayer and fasting .
But the brief courtroom hearing with its mundane talk of calendars and hearings also brought the sometime "prophet" of a Utah - based polygamist sect one step closer to a Texas courtroom to face allegations of sexual assault and bigamy - perhaps law enforcement's best avenue to keep him behind bars .
Jeffs and 11 members of his Fundamentalist Church of the Latter Day Saints ( FLDS ) were charged in 2008 by Texas authorities with a variety of felony charges , from bigamy to child abuse , following a raid on the group's Yearning for Zion Ranch in tiny Eldorado , Texas .
Seven of the men have been convicted and have received sentences ranging from 7 to 75 years ; another goes on trial this month .
Jerry Strickland , a spokesman for Texas Attorney General Greg Abbott told TIME : "Whenever Warren Jeffs is brought to Texas , we stand ready to try him on felony charges returned by a Schleicher County grand jury . "
( Will Texas have better luck with Warren Jeffs ? )
Jeffs' defense team's efforts to fight extradition are a "big long shot , " according to Clifford Rosky , a criminal law professor at the University of Utah .
"He is going to be extradited - it's a matter of weeks , not months , " Rosky says .
On Tuesday , Jeffs refused to sign the waiver of extradition - a move his legal team had hinted would happen after Utah's Gov . Gary Herbert accepted the extradition request by Texas Gov . Rick Perry last month .
The wrangling over his extradition will continue at a Nov . 15 hearing when it is likely Jeffs' legal team will argue he should remain in Utah until charges against him in that state are either dropped or reinstated .
( See a multi - media look at families excommunicated by Warren Jeffs . )
In August , the Utah Supreme Court tossed out a 2008 conviction in state court that found Jeffs was an accomplice to rape after he performed a marriage between Elissa Wall , 14 , and her then 19 - year - old first cousin , Allen G . Steed .
Jeffs remains in Utah prison so far , while state government is asking its high court to reconsider its ruling .
Prosecutors , however , have been mum on whether they will retry Jeffs .
"We don't need him here right now , " Utah Assistant Attorney General Craig Barlow said , urging the court to move forward on the Texas extradition .
Texas prosecutors need only prove the target of their arrest warrant is the real Warren Jeffs and that their charges are based on some reasonable belief that a crime occurred .
During the raid on the FLDS ranch , Texas Rangers removed numerous boxes of records and computers .
Later , the state assembled a detailed DNA map of the 401 children removed by child protective services from the ranch , plus samples from some of their parents who agreed to testing to reclaim their children .
Among the evidence was a 2006 photograph marked "anniversary" that shows Jeffs kissing a 12 - year - old girl .
The photo , according to FLDS detractors depicts an abusive underage marriage , while supporters claim it is just a record of a symbolic kiss marking a spiritual marriage aimed at strengthening bonds between families .
But the photo is likely to be evidence in Jeffs' Texas trial , the sort of evidence that eluded Utah prosecutors .
Meanwhile , Schleicher County Sheriff David Doran says his 15 - bed jail is ready for Jeffs whenever he arrives in the small West Texas town of Eldorado .
The man who spent three months eluding the FBI in 2006 also could be housed in nearby San Angelo , a city of some 88 , 000 residents compared to El Dorado's 1 , 800 .
Law enforcement continues to view him as flight risk .
Tuesday's hearing was delayed as attorneys and prosecutors argued .
Prosecutors wanted him in prison clothes and handcuffed , defense attorneys argued he should appear unshackled in civilian clothes .
The judge split the baby and Jeffs appeared in a suit , a white shirt that looked a little large in the collar , and his hands cuffed as if in prayer .
As he appeared a dozen male members of the FLDS community in the courtroom audience stood and smiled at their former leader .
"He is holding up great .
He is doing just fine .
He is very appreciative of the Utah Supreme Court's decision .
He is a prayerful man and he feels , and the people who support Mr . Jeffs believe , that their prayers were answered , " Jeffs' attorney Walter F . Bugden told the Salt Lake Tribune .
"He is a little thin , he is a little thin .
He could use some fattening up . "