http : / / www . catholicnewsagency . com / news / obama _ nominates _ rural _ catholic _ doctor _ as _ surgeon _ general /
Obama nominates rural Catholic doctor as Surgeon General
Washington D . C . , Jul 13 , 2009 / 02 : 00 pm ( CNA )
President Barack Obama has announced that he is nominating a rural Alabama Catholic doctor to be the U . S . Surgeon General .
Reacting to the news , the rector of Mobile's Catholic cathedral , where she serves as lector , is encouraging her to defend the unborn in her new position .
In a Monday statement President Obama said he intended to nominate Dr . Regina Benjamin as Surgeon General , the United States government's "chief health educator . "
The president's announcement focused on health care reform as an urgent challenge .
Dr . Benjamin , the first black woman to be admitted to the American Medical Association , founded the Bayou La Batre Rural Health Clinic in Alabama in 1990 .
There , she served the poor Alabama community on the Gulf Coast after 1998's Hurricane Georges and 2005's Hurricane Katrina .
She had to rebuild the clinic after it burned down , receiving a $500 , 000 MacArthur Foundation "genius grant" in 2008 for the effort .
Dr . Benjamin is known as being a national leader in improving health disparities , motivated by the need in her community .
Immigrants from Vietnam , Cambodia and Laos make up a third of the area's population of 2 , 500 .
She received the Nelson Mandela Award for Health and Human Rights in 1998 .
Pope Benedict XVI awarded her the Pro Ecclessia et Pontifice medal in 2006 .
President Obama's announcement also noted that Dr . Benjamin received the 2000 National Caring Award which was inspired by Mother Teresa .
The nominee graduated from Xavier University in New Orleans , a Catholic school descended from the educational work of St . Katharine Drexel .
Dr . Benjamin received her medical degree from the University of Alabama , Birmingham .
Dr . Benjamin has also served on the Board of Trustees for the Catholic Health Association , a position that she will resign from to take on her new job .
In a Monday statement , CHA president and chief executive officer Sister Carol Keehan , DC , said that the organization "rejoices for our nation" in Dr . Benjamin's nomination .
"In Dr . Benjamin , we have a brilliant physician who understands health care , nationally and internationally ; but even more important , she knows the health care needs of the people of Bayou La Batre , Alabama , who she meets on a daily basis . "
Sr . Keehan said the nominee will "enrich the nation" with her competence and integrity and she praised Dr . Benjamin's daily experience working in "a very vulnerable committee . "
CNA spoke with Msgr . Michael L . Farmer , Vicar General of the Archdiocese of Mobile and rector at the Cathedral of the Immaculate Conception in Mobile .
Msgr . Farmer said Dr . Benjamin is a "delightful lady" who has served as lector at the cathedral and has been "readily available" to speak with various Catholic organizations .
She has also worked with Catholic Charities in Mobile and has spoken on the good the organization does .
He reported that she grew up at the historically African - American parish Shrine of the Holy Cross in the Gulf Coast town of Daphne , Alabama .
The monsignor also confirmed that then - Archbishop of Mobile Oscar Lipscomb recommended Dr . Regina Benjamin for the Pro Ecclesia et Pontifice award .
The medal is bestowed to lay people and clergy who have given zealous and outstanding service to the Church .
The honor was instituted by Pope Leo XIII in 1888 .
"He recommended her for her example in her Catholic faith as well as in her medical profession , " Msgr . Farmer said , noting the "amazing amount of work" she has done for the common good and for health care in south Mobile County .
Expressing certainty that Dr . Benjamin had opportunities to go elsewhere , he said the doctor had made a "concrete decision" to remain in Alabama and address her patients' needs .
"She's noted not only for clinic work , but for going on site to these people's homes .
And they're not necessarily the nicest places to go to . "
He said it was "remarkable" and "bridge - building" that Dr . Benjamin , an African - American woman , has done her work in the bayou , which he described as a majority white community with "a lot of poor people in it . "
Given the appointments and policy decisions of the Obama Administration that favor the promotion of abortion , CNA asked Msgr . Farmer if he knew what Dr . Benjamin's position is on abortion .
He explained that he did not "explicitly" know Dr . Benjamin's position on abortion and other life issues and had never discussed it with her .
"I would hope that her position would be in line with the Church's position , " he told CNA .
"As far as I know she has been in conformity with the Catholic Church . "
"I would hope that that would continue , " he added , noting that it could be "difficult" to adhere to Catholic moral teaching in a position with the Obama Administration .
In a Monday morning telephone interview with CNA , Sr . Keehan pointed out that Dr . Benjamin isn't "in a specialty that would do abortion" and that her work to provide health care to the poor and elderly demonstrates her "tremendous attention to the issue of life . "
"And you've got her own archbishop who asked the Holy Father to give her the Pro Ecclesia medal .
"You don't get that for just being a token Catholic , " she told CNA .
In December 2008 a coalition of several dozen pro - abortion groups released a strategy document titled "Advancing Reproductive Rights and Health in a New Administration" calling on Obama to improve access to "abortion care . "
The document named the surgeon general's office as a "position of interest . "