A Woodburn police officer and state police bomb squad technician were killed , while the city 's police chief remained in critical condition after a bomb exploded late Friday at a Woodburn bank .
The FBI and ATF offered a $ 35,000 reward for information leading to the arrest and conviction of the person or persons responsible for the explosion and deaths , Oregon State Police said .
The explosion happened at the West Coast Bank on the Newberg 214 Highway just before 5:30 p.m. , Marion County deputies said .
Officers were on the scene investigating a report of a suspicious device when the explosion occurred .
Woodburn Police Department Capt. Tom Tennant and Oregon State Police bomb technician Bill Hakim were killed in the blast .
Woodburn Chief of Police Scott Russell was listed in critical condition at OHSU and a female bank employee received minor injuries .
On Friday morning , a Woodburn-area Wells Fargo Bank received a threatening phone call from an unknown person .
Bank personnel notified Woodburn Police Department and the bank was evacuated while police investigated with the assistance of the FBI and an Oregon State Police bomb squad .
The investigation led to the West Coast Bank on Highway 214 , just east of Interstate 5 .
While investigators were in the area , a suspicious device detonated .
State police said the first device , discovered by police after the suspicious phone call , was determined not to be dangerous .
The second device , which was discovered by a bank employee , did detonate .
It was unclear to police whether the devices were related .
Highway 214 in Woodburn was to remain closed most of the weekend due to the explosion , police said .
Residents and commuters were encouraged to find other routes of travel in the area .
`` This individual took the life of two police officers , critically injured the chief of police , and potentially could have taken the lives of bank employees inside , '' Oregon State Police Lt. Hastings said .
`` If it takes a $ 35,000 reward , or if that reward grows , to break the case open then it 's money well spent . ''
Hakim became the second bomb technician in Oregon State Police history to be killed in the line of duty .
Marion County sheriffs described Hakim as a dedicated family man with wife and two teenaged children .
Woodburn Police Sgt. Jason Tlusty became emotional describing Capt. Tennant , who also was killed in the blast .
Tlusty described Tennant as an active community member `` who would do anything to help those in need . ''
Twelve hours into the investigation authorities said it remained unclear whether the two devices were related .
A multi-agency investigation involving federal , state , county and city police agencies is investigating , coordinated by the Marion County Sheriff 's Office working with an interagency team of investigators and the Marion County District Attorney 's Office .
Anyone with information is asked to call the tip line at 800-800-3855 .