http : / / www . badlefthook . com / 2012 / 7 / 7 / 3143743 / klitschko - vs - thompson - ii - results - wladimir - klitschko - tko - sixth - round - heavyweight - boxing - news
Klitschko vs Thompson II Results : Wladimir Klitschko Cruises Again , Wins in Six
on Jul 7 2012 , 5 : 55p
Wladimir Klitschko won his 16th straight fight today , successfully defending the WBA , WBO , and IBF heavyweight titles against Tony Thompson , stopping the 40 - year - old American in the sixth round of a fight that was never really close .
Klitschko ( 58 - 3 , 51 KO ) bombed Thompson with a vicious right hand in the fifth round , putting him down late in the frame .
That Thompson got up spoke a lot about his desire to try and win , but the fight essentially ended there .
He survived the round , but by the end of the sixth frame , appeared mentally beaten and looking for a way out .
He went down again in the corner late in the round , and this time referee Sam Williams stopped it at 2 : 56 .
Klitschko had beaten Thompson back in 2008 , mostly dominating that fight and knocking "The Tiger" out in the 11th rounds .
This time , with Thompson four years older and having had no significant tests in the four years that had passed since their first bout , it wasn't even as competitive as it was the first time .
Thompson ( 36 - 3 , 24 KO ) just didn't have a shot in there , looked old , and though his awkward southpaw style gave Klitschko some moments of slight discomfort , it would be a stretch to say that he troubled Wladimir .
At this point with the Klitschkos , as much as I admire their talent , skill , dedication to their craft , and the classy manner in which they carry themselves , I just feel like I've seen enough from them both .
We're running rerun bouts now .
Is there really anyone out there you can look at and see as an actual threat to them ? Is there anyone on the way up who has that skill set ?
I just don't see it , and I've grown tired of tuning in for passionless exhibitions of superiority .
I don't think they've killed the division , I just think they've dominated it , and with no actual hope for that earth - shaking upset on the horizon , I think I'd personally prefer to just see them both take farewell fights and head on out .
There's nothing more to see here .