Now that Fulton County courthouse killer Brian Nichols has been sentenced to life without parole , one of the not yet answered questions is where the 37-year-old will serve time .
Superior Court Judge James Bodiford on Saturday suggested that Nichols should serve his time in the federal maximum security prison - known as Supermax - in Florence , Colo. , which has the reputation as the nation 's toughest and most secure prison .
Bodiford said he was surprised to learn during the trial that Nichols , who is committed of state crimes , could still serve his time in a federal prison .
`` I thought maybe Supermax might be a good place for Mr. Nichols for what it is worth , '' Bodiford said .
`` I do n't believe I can order it and I am not going to order it but that is my two cents worth . ''
About the prison:
The supermax unit at the Florence Federal Correctional Complex at Florence , Colo. , primarily holds extremely dangerous or escape-risk federal inmates .
There also are a few state prisoners there who need more security than those prisons can provide .
The remote prison , which opened in 1994 , almost disappears into the same-color desert around it .
Cells are 8-by-12 feet , with concrete walls , ceilings and furnishings , including the bed .
The toilets , sinks and showers are stainless steel .
Cell windows are long and narrow , limiting the view to only the sky .
Some known inmates:
Unabomber Ted Kaczynski , shoe bomber Richard Reid , and Sept. 11 , 2001 conspirator Zacarias Moussaoui .
Jamil Abdullah Al-Amin , the 1960s militant once named H. Rap Brown , convicted in Georgia of the state crime of murdering a Fulton County deputy .
Convicted of federal crimes in Georgia : Eric Robert Rudolph , who pleaded guilty to the Centennial Olympic Park bombings and other bombings in Atlanta , and Malachi Z. York , the Nuwaubian leader convicted of child molestation , racketeering and federal financial reporting charges .
Prison program:
A three-step program limits - or perhaps deprives - inmates of many things that would stimulate the senses - smell , sight and touch .
Olympic Park bomber Rudolph complained in letters to a Colorado newspaper in 2006 that the prison 's design was driving him insane .
In the first stage of the program , inmates spend 23 of every 24 hours double-locked behind a steel door and a barred grate .
They are allowed one 15-minute telephone call a month .
One hour each day is spent alone in a recreation area .
Their behavior is reviewed every 90 days before they can be moved up to the next step .
At the second and third steps , inmates are given progressively more freedom , more time for exercise , longer and more frequent telephone calls and more social contact with other prisoners - as long as they are free of violations .
Limited inmate privileges:
Inmates get a radio and a black-and-white , 13-inch television made specially with clear backs that reveal all internal components .
The TVs are hooked up to `` basic cable . ''
Inmates participate in religious services that are broadcast on their televisions .
Guards pass inmates ' meals , law books and other items through a slot in the door .
There is limited direct human contact .