http : / / bigstory . ap . org / article / colts - beat - chiefs - 20 - 13 - clinch - playoff - berth - 0
COLTS BEAT CHIEFS 20 - 13 TO CLINCH PLAYOFF BERTH
Dec . 24 4 : 33 AM EST
Andrew Luck couldn't help but smile thinking about the joyous celebration taking place just down the hall , through the big metal doors marking the entrance to the Colts' locker room .
Even interim coach Bruce Arians had been dancing .
"It's a fun locker room , a great locker room , " Luck said after leading Indianapolis to a 20 - 13 victory over Kansas City .
"You know guys are going to play hard no matter what the score , no matter what the situation , and I am very proud to be a part of a team like that . "
A team that's headed back to the playoffs , too .
Luck threw for 205 yards on Sunday , breaking Cam Newton's single - season mark for yards by a first - year quarterback .
He also engineered the go - ahead drive late in the fourth quarter , hitting Reggie Wayne on third - and - goal from the Kansas City 7 with just over 4 minutes remaining .
The touchdown pass finished off Luck's seventh four - quarter comeback this season , and allowed the Colts ( 10 - 5 ) to join the Miami Dolphins of 2008 as the only teams in NFL history to win at least 10 games one year after losing 14 or more .
"Would we have done it without him ? " Arians asked .
"No . "
Luck broke Newton's record of 4 , 051 yards passing in the second quarter , and then became the fifth rookie quarterback in the Super Bowl era to win at least 10 games in a season .
"Obviously it's nicer to be in the playoffs , " Luck said , "but it's nice to have a couple records — which I'm sure will be broken in the next year . "
Don't be quite so sure .
Luck still has next Sunday's game against Houston to pile up numbers , and then comes a trip to the playoffs , where the Colts became a mainstay under his predecessor , Peyton Manning .
"We didn't want to slide in the backdoor and put the extra stress on a man having to win the next game , " Luck said .
"So we are very glad to be going to the postseason . "
Arians will also get a reprieve from shouldering so much of the burden .
Colts coach Chuck Pagano , who has undergoing treatment for leukemia , plans to rejoin the team this week .
Jamaal Charles ran for 226 yards for the Chiefs , including an 84 - yard scamper on the first play of the second half as his team rallied to forge a 13 - all tie entering the fourth quarter .
It was Charles' second 200 - yard game of the season , and the third of his career , and came one week after he managed 10 yards on nine carries against Oakland .
"It was fun today , competing out there and doing it while we were trying to come back , " Charles said .
"It was fun going out there and putting out a performance like that . "
Charles joined the Titans' Chris Johnson and former Lions great Barry Sanders as the only players with three runs of 80 or more yards in a season .
Peyton Hillis added 101 yards on the ground for the Chiefs ( 2 - 13 ) , who finished with 352 yards rushing in a losing effort .
A big reason why was Brady Quinn , who was just 10 of 22 for 162 yards with two interceptions through the air .
"This game was without a doubt , 100 percent on my shoulders , " Quinn said .
"You can't play the way I played today and win a football game . "
His trouble began with the Chiefs' fifth offensive play , when he threw woefully behind Dexter McCluster — who wasn't even looking for the ball .
Darius Butler picked off the pass in stride , and took it untouched 32 yards to give the Colts a 7 - 0 lead .
Kansas City managed a field goal by Ryan Succop , but he missed his next try and the Colts went the other direction to set up the first of Adam Vinatieri's two field goals .
Charles fumbled in the red zone later in the second quarter , and the Colts moved into Vinatieri's range for a 36 - yard field goal and a 13 - 3 halftime lead .
Charles electrified a sparse crowd on the first play of the second half .
He angled to the left and then found room down the sideline , cutting back toward the middle of the field and winning a foot - race with the Indianapolis defense for an 86 - yard touchdown run .
The Chiefs were in position to take the lead later in the third quarter , but Quinn was picked off by Vontae Davis in the end zone .
The defense forced a three - and - out and Kansas City was driving again before settling for Succop's tying 47 - yard field goal .
The Chiefs got the ball back again late in the fourth quarter , but Quinn was stuffed on a quarterback sneak on fourth - and - inches from the Indianapolis 27 .
That turned the ball over to Luck , who completed an 11 - yard pass to T . Y . Hilton to convert a third down before he and Wayne won it .
"At times it looked a little bleak , " Arians said .
"Guys hung in there , made plays when they had to make them .
Offensively we struggled , and then put together a drive , like we have all year . "
NOTES : Chiefs WR Terrance Copper ( left knee ) and DT Tyson Jackson ( left foot ) left with injuries . . . .
Wayne had five catches to become the fifth player in NFL history with four 100 - catch seasons .
He also became the 14th player to reach 13 , 000 yards receiving .