http : / / www . wwltv . com / sports / black - and - gold / Saints - sign - RB - Joique - Bell - 112954389 . html
Pierre Thomas out for playoffs after Saints place him on IR
Posted on January 5 , 2011 at 3 : 39 PM
Updated Wednesday , Jan 5 at 5 : 53 PM
The Saints placed running back Pierre Thomas on IR Wednesday , the second time in as many days the team has placed one of its primary running backs on the list .
New Orleans picked up DeShawn Wynn on Monday after putting Chris Ivory on Injured Reserve and on Wednesday , signed Joique Bell to replace Thomas
“ With Pierre , last week during practice he had a setback , ” head coach Sean Payton said .
“ We got to that point in discussing it with him where it was at .
He came back and was very effective for a couple of games , particular the ATL game .
But the setback was substantial .
“ We ’ re at the time of year where you want to do what ’ s best .
The doctors , trainers and ourselves , we thought it was the best move . ”
New Orleans plays at Seattle on Saturday at 3 : 30 p . m . in the Wild Card round of the NFC playoffs .
While Thomas went on IR , four others did not practice .
Defensive tackle Anthony Hargrove ( knee ) , tight end Jimmy Graham ( ankle ) , linebacker Danny Clark ( hamstring ) and defensive back Malcolm Jenkins ( knee ) all sat out .
Tight ends Jeremy Shockey ( groin ) and David Thomas ( knee ) both were limited while receiver Marques Colston ( knee ) and defensive end Alex Brown ( shoulder ) both were full .
Thomas came into 2010 as the team ’ s leading returning rusher from the Saints ’ Super Bowl winning season .
He had 793 yards and six touchdowns on 147 carries and caught 39 passes for 302 yards and another two touchdowns .
But he missed 10 total games this season and had only 269 yards and two touchdowns on 83 carries and another 201 yards on 29 catches .
The Saints have had a season - long struggle with the running back corps , dating back to training camp when Lynell Hamilton was lost for the season when he tore up his knee in practices with New England .
Less than three weeks later , P . J . Hill was placed on IR with a torn triceps that he injured in a preseason game against Houston .
Reggie Bush was lost for half the season after breaking his right fibula in New Orleans ’ Sept . 20 win over San Francisco .
A week later , Pierre Thomas went out for nearly nine weeks when he severely sprained his ankle late in New Orleans ’ loss to Atlanta .
But while Bush has returned and played in the past six games , Thomas was back for only three games before being listed on the inactive list for the regular season ender against Tampa Bay .
He tweaked the same left ankle that bothered him originally the Friday before the game against the Bucs .
Bell ( 5 - foot - 11 , 220 pounds ) has spent time with the Indianapolis Colts , Philadelphia and Buffalo this season , but has no carries .
He played at Wayne State , where he finished with 6 , 728 yards rushing with 96 touchdowns in addition to 918 yards and four scores receiving .