http : / / voices . yahoo . com / pierre - thomas - placed - injured - reserve - orleans - 7538718 . html ? cat=14
Pierre Thomas Placed on Injured Reserve by New Orleans Saints
Jan 5 , 2011
Pierre Thomas was placed on injured reserve by the New Orleans Saints on Wednesday , meaning he won't play in the 2011 NFL playoffs .
Losing Thomas is bad enough , but it is compiled with the fact that they just lost Chris Ivory on Tuesday .
This means they will be missing two of their best players in the rushing game , and it could weaken the attack that the Saints have on offense even further .
Coach Sean Payton announced it himself on Wednesday , revealing through the New Orleans Saints Twitter account that Thomas had been placed on IR .
It was a very shocking revelation in the roster moves the Saints have been making and any Saints fan that came into the postseason extremely confident about their team should be a tad worried about what the Saints can do now .
They still have Reggie Bush and Julius Jones to head the running game , so at least the Saints weren't left empty handed .
Last season it was Thomas that led the Saints in rushing , posting 793 total yards in 14 games .
He had been hobbled this year , and that was the main reason that Ivory ended up seeing so much playing time .
Ivory rushed for 716 yards this year , leading the Saints in rushing , and giving them a great option as they tried to survive without Thomas and Bush behind quarterback Drew Brees on offense .
We reported Tuesday how Ivory is done for the year , and it raises the chances of Seattle pulling off an upset on Saturday .
The Seattle vs . New Orleans game will be the first one on wild card weekend , with kickoff scheduled for 1 : 30 p . m . PST .
Seattle is the big underdog in this game , even though it is the team hosting the game .
Getting to play in front of the home crowd and going up against a banged - up Saints team could be exactly what the Seahawks need to pull an upset , but they will need quarterback Matt Hasselbeck to come up huge as well .
Hasselbeck had more than 300 passing yards against the Saints back in Week 11 , so maybe Seattle has a chance after all .
As for the Saints on offense , they still have Super Bowl MVP Drew Brees taking the snaps .
He is having a bit of a down year by his standards , especially in the category of interceptions , but this is still a guy who could throw for 400 yards on any given night .
A lot will be asked of him on Saturday , but he has been in pressure - packed games quite a few times at this point in his career .