http : / / query . nytimes . com / gst / fullpage . html ? res=9A0DE2DE1431F93BA15752C1A9639C8B63
Powerful Quake in Iran Kills 10 ; 80 Hurt and 7 Villages Damaged
Published : November 28 , 2005
A powerful earthquake hit southern Iran on Sunday , causing major destruction in seven villages and killing 10 people and injuring 80 .
The tremor shook Oman and the United Arab Emirates as well , forcing many office workers to evacuate their buildings .
The official IRNA news agency and the United States Geological Survey said it had a magnitude of 5 . 9 .
Iran's seismologic center said the epicenter of the earthquake was in the waters of the Persian Gulf , 35 miles southwest of the port of Bandar Abbas .
Iran is on seismic fault lines .
A major earthquake killed more than 31 , 000 in city of Bam in central Iran in 2003 , and 600 were killed in the city of Zarand in February in an earthquake with a magnitude of 6 . 4 .
The tourist Island of Qeshm on the Persian Gulf and seven of its villages were most strongly affected by the quake .
It hit at 1 : 53 p . m . local time and was followed by at least four strong aftershocks , IRNA reported .
The news agency also reported that one of the major hospitals on the island , in the village of Jeyhian , was destroyed and the village's power lines were cut .
The island's airport was also damaged .
Abdolreza Sheikholeslami , the governor of Hormozgan Province , the center of the damaged area , said 40 percent to 70 percent of the buildings in seven villages were destroyed , IRNA reported .
Two helicopters began moving the injured to the hospital in Bandar Abbas , and aid workers began distributing food , blankets and tents in the region , the governor said .
Qeshm is Iran's largest island in the Persian Gulf , with a population of 120 , 000 .
The quake jolted several cities in the United Arab Emirates , across the Persian Gulf from Iran .
Office workers in Dubai , United Arab Emirates , evacuated several buildings in the city , pouring onto the streets and snarling traffic .
There were no reported injuries in Dubai .
Mehdi Zareh , director of the seismological center in Tehran , dismissed concerns that the earthquake would cause tsunamis , IRNA reported .
''The Persian Gulf is not deep enough so that we can expect tsunamis , '' he was quoted as saying .
Map of Iran highlighting epicenter of earthquake : A tremor shook southern Iran yesterday , causing major damage .