http : / / www . yourfibreopticnews . com / news _ item . php ? newsID=30873
Submarine cable problem disrupts telecom services in Alexandria
Thursday , Aug 18 , 2011
Services on Egypt's three telecom operators were disrupted in parts of Alexandria on Tuesday afternoon , and some users in Cairo experienced slower internet connections due to "downtime" in a submarine cable .
Vodafone Egypt said some users are continuing to face slight problems due to damage in Telecom Egypt's cables which began in central Cairo .
"Vodafone , along with the country's three telecom providers has been affected by a damage in one of Telecom Egypt's fiber cables in a wire going from the Ramsis Communications Center all the way to Sadat City , " said Khaled Hegazy , Vodafone's external affairs director .
"This has affected and continues to affect communications especially in parts of Alexandria and Suez governorates , " he said .
"We have not been told when it will be fixed yet , it is in the hands of Telecom Egypt .
Right now it is still slightly affecting some connections , " he added .
On its Twitter account , Etisalat Misr said , "Customers on all three Egyptian mobile operators may currently face connection issues with voice , mobile internet , and / or BlackBerry services as a result of a damaged fiber cable from TE Data .
"The issue is currently under investigation and services will be restored as soon as possible . "
According to MyBroadband , the largest IT website in South Africa , the problem was attributed to downtime experienced by the pan - African ICT enabler SEACOM .
The company which is a privately funded venture that owns and operates a submarine fiber - optic cable connecting communication carriers in south and east Africa , affected Mobinil , Vodafone , and Etisalat networks across parts of Alexandria and Suez .
"We are seeing some problems in our telecom towers which are affecting only certain parts like Abu Qir district or Maamoura , for example , " a Mobinil customer service representative told Daily News Egypt .
"Other than that , our clients have been calling us as usual . "
A Vodafone customer representative also confirmed that some of their users were experiencing downtime in parts of Alexandria due to "minor technical difficulties . "
According to SEACOM , the problems began at around 08 : 30 am on Tuesday , and were resolved at approximately 09 : 40 .
"SEACOM's partner network experienced a terrestrial fiber cut between Alexandria and the Suez this morning 16th August from 06 : 31GMT .
All links are back up as of 07 : 35GMT .
Total downtime was 1hr 4 mins , " the company was quoted as saying in an official statement .