The last five days have been a wild rollercoaster ride for `` Twilight '' fans , as the film 's director was told her services would no longer be required for the sequels , fueling speculation over her replacement , followed by a rumor about a supposed successor .
Now , it seems , a battle is going on between a studio saying there 's no news to report and an entertainment magazine claiming Chris Weitz is getting behind the `` Twilight '' steering wheel .
`` There will be a new director atop the 'Twilight ' franchise : and he 'll be a man , '' Entertainment Weekly 's `` Hollywood Insider '' is reporting .
`` Sources tell EW.com that Summit Entertainment is about to hire Chris Weitz ( 'The Golden Compass ' ) as the shepherd for 'New Moon , ' the second installment of Stephenie Meyer 's best-selling 'Twilight ' series . ''
Although Weitz was indeed offered the high-profile gig , the `` American Pie '' filmmaker has spent much of the week contemplating his participation .
According to `` Twilight '' studio Summit Entertainment , the deal remains unconsummated .
`` No , it is not official , '' a studio representative told MTV News on Thursday evening ( December 11 ) .
`` We are not confirming anything at this point .
He is not signed on as the director . ''
`` We are not confirming , '' echoed a second representative .
Whether EW is hearing incorrectly from their sources or the studio is just biding time until it can make a proper announcement , this much seems certain : Catherine Hardwicke is moving on to future projects that will not involve teenage vampires , and a man is likely to take her place .
Twilighters have spent much of the week arguing with each other - and attempting to form protests and letter-writing campaigns - while debating whether they should speak out against the changes to their beloved franchise .
Whether they 'll warm to Weitz is anyone 's guess , but at least the filmmaker can always take solace in the fact that the fanbase similarly rebelled against Kristen Stewart and Robert Pattinson when they originally signed up for the film that would make them superstars .