In front of his home fans and a national television audience , Tyler Hansbrough became the all-time leading scorer for North Carolina basketball on Thursday in his team 's win over Evansville .
Hansbrough needed just nine points in the game to eclipse Phil Ford for the top spot .
He wound up with 20 after surpassing Ford 's mark in the first half .
Hansbrough now has 2,301 career points as a Tar Heel .
Hansbrough epitomizes all that is right with college basketball .
He gives his best every night , plays the game right , and has stayed in school for all four years of eligibility .
Amid much speculation about how he will fare in the NBA , Hansbrough has remained focused on the present and is one of the biggest parts of the top team in the country , on what many believe is the best team in recent memory .
UNC is now 10-0 , with their closest margin of victory being by 15 points .
Joining events such as the Big Ten/ACC Challenge and the Big 12/Pac 10 Hard-court Series , the SEC and Big East showcased four cross-conference games for the second straight season .
While the SEC stole the show on Tuesday with victories from Vanderbilt and Tennessee , the Big East responded on Thursday with wins from Cincinnati and Louisville .
Cincinnati jumped out to a big 18-point halftime lead over Mississippi State , and fended off a comeback to win 75-63 .
The other game was very similar , as Louisville jumped out to a big lead on Mississippi .
Mississippi came all the way back to tie the game in the second half before Louisville ultimately won 77-68 .
Mississippi was playing amid some controversy , as head coach Andy Kennedy denied charges of physical assault and racial remarks toward a cab driver .
Several other players had big nights on Thursday in addition to the record-setting night from Hansbrough .
Louisville 's Earl Clark finished his team 's victory with 25 points and 16 rebounds , both career highs .
Clark actually had 17 points in just over the first eight minutes of the game , accounting for 17 of his team 's first 24 points .
Clark 's hot start helped Louisville to jump out on Ole Miss by a score of 32-14 midway through the first half .
Cincinnati was led by Deonta Vaughn .
Vaughn finished with 16 points and nine rebounds , scoring 14 in a four-minute stretch that resulted in a 20-2 run to close the half .
Despite Evanville 's loss to UNC , one of their players was able to top Hansbrough in the scoring column .
Shy Ely put up 23 points against the Tar Heels .
Ely is a senior hoping to help lead the Purple Aces to the top of the Missouri Valley Conference this season .
Western Kentucky , the same team that has given Louisville its only loss of the season , earned a huge victory in their first conference game of the season by winning on the road against South Alabama .
Western Kentucky and South Alabama have dominated the Sun Belt Conference in recent years , and both made the NCAA tournament last season .
The Hilltoppers were led by 20-point efforts from guards A.J. Slaughter and Orlando Mendez-Valdez .
Three teams went into games on Thursday night trying to earn their first victories of the season .
Congratulations are in order for North Florida , who beat Furman 77-66 .
The other two teams were not as fortunate .
North Carolina Central dropped to 0-13 after a 66-51 loss to Winstom-Salem and Texas Southern moved to 0-10 after absorbing a blowout loss to No. 9-ranked Gonzaga .