Charger says he 's innocent of DUI
Wide receiver Jackson says he does n't think charges will be filed
San Diego Chargers wide receiver Vincent Jackson was arrested yesterday on suspicion of drunken driving .
Jackson failed sobriety tests shortly after 2 a.m. on state Route 52 in San Diego , said California Highway Patrol Officer Ray Scheidnes .
He said he did n't know Jackson 's blood-alcohol level .
An officer stopped Jackson after spotting the player braking abruptly , speeding and weaving in a 2008 GMC Sierra , said Highway Patrol Officer Brad Baehr .
Jackson was on probation for a previous DUI arrest , he said .
The player was taken to the San Diego County jail and later released .
Jackson , in a brief statement released through the team , said he did n't think charges would be filed against him .
`` In the event they are , I look forward to clearing my name and proving my innocence , '' he said .
A gun owned by Indianapolis Colts star Marvin Harrison was used in an April shooting , but investigators still can not determine who pulled the trigger , the city 's chief prosecutor said yesterday .
Five of the six bullet casings found at the North Philadelphia shooting scene came from Harrison 's weapon , but investigators have conflicting witness accounts of who fired it , Philadelphia District Attorney Lynne Abraham said .
No charges have been filed in the April 28 shooting and the investigation remains open .
Bruce Smith - the NFL 's career sacks leader - Rod Woodson , Shannon Sharpe and John Randle are among the 15 finalists for induction into the Pro Football Hall of Fame , the only first-year eligible players to make the final round this year .
Joining them will be two contributors - former commissioner Paul Tagliabue and Buffalo Bills owner Ralph Wilson - as well as two senior nominees selected last August by the Senior Committee - former Atlanta defensive end Claude Humphrey and former Dallas wide receiver Bob Hayes .
Between four and seven candidates will be elected in the balloting that will take place on Jan. 31 , the day before the Super Bowl .
A former New England Patriots lineman and high school football coach in Walpole , Mass. , has been released on bail as he awaits trial on charges he raped a 15-year-old girl .
Daniel Villa posted $ 7,500 ( U.S. ) bail yesterday and was fitted for an electronic monitoring bracelet .
The conditions of Villa 's bail include staying away from children under 16 .