http : / / www . womenmakingmoves . org / 2009 / 07 / surgeon - general - nominee - dr - regina . html
WEDNESDAY , JULY 29 , 2009
Surgeon General Nominee Dr . Regina Benjamin
I was immediately impressed with Dr . Regina Benjamin's background when President Obama nominated her for U . S . Surgeon General .
She's led an impressive career , one that includes deciding to practice in a low - income community in the Gulf Coast of Alabama .
The Bayou La Batre Rural Health Clinic has been a staple for residents since 1987 and often doesn't charge patients who can't afford to pay .
The clinic also focuses heavily on preventative illness since this hits close to home for Dr . Benjamin .
She lost her father to diabetics and high - blood pressure , her mother to lung cancer and her brother from a HIV - related illness .
Personally and professionally , Dr . Benjamin has longed fought for the well - being of others .
After researching her background , I had a gut feeling she was a member of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority , Inc . , a non - profit community service based organization .
And it was confirmed several days later when the sorority's national president announced Dr . Benjamin became a member while completing her undergraduate degree at Xavier University in New Orleans , La .
While I wasn't the only one impressed with Dr . Benjamin's background , there were also some who questioned her ability to perform the duties of Surgeon General .
An article with the subtitle : "Do you have to be thin to be fit for the role of nation's Top Doc ? " , was published shortly after Dr . Benjamin's nomination .
Dr . Arthur Caplan penned the article and defended Dr . Benjamin due to her tireless effort of serving those less fortunate .
I applaud him for taking a stand on Dr . Benjamin's behalf .
I don't condone a unhealthy lifestyle , but I'm sure Dr . Benjamin is probably like many of us .
With hectic work schedules and families , it can be difficult to find time to lead a healthy lifestyle .
I struggle with juggling my to - do - list daily and sometimes exercise and healthy eating doesn't make the cut .
It's no secret that women are confronted with these issues more than men .
I'm calling on women to speak up for Dr . Benjamin .
You don't have to agree with the policies of President Obama or even with the nomination of Dr . Benjamin , but we can't continue to allow society to dictate our outer appearance .
Women , start making your Moves today !