Hansbrough broke Ford 's all-time scoring record at North Carolina during the game .
A captive audience that included an emotional Tyler Hansbrough watched intently as the Smith Center video boards mixed in congratulatory remarks with the collection of memorable plays .
The accompanying music : O.A.R. hit `` Shattered . ''
Hansbrough , North Carolina 's new career scoring leader , approached midcourt when the song ended. UNC legend Phil Ford bowed before him .
Hansbrough passed Ford for the top spot in school history while posting 20 points in the top-ranked Tar Heels ' 91-73 victory against Evansville on Thursday night .
Hansbrough entered the game with 2,282 points , eight fewer than Ford 's total from 1974-78 .
He broke the record when he posted up on the right block , spun toward the middle of the lane and banked in an off-balanced shot over James Haarsma with 7:42 remaining in the first half .
Hansbrough missed a dunk 23 seconds later with UNC leading 24-20 , and the Tar Heels ( 10-0 ) took control with a 19-4 run .
`` I 'm usually not nervous before games , and I was a little nervous before tonight just because I felt like there was a lot of pressure , '' Hansbrough said .
`` One thing for me , I did n't want to strictly focus on trying to break a scoring record .
We had a game , and I was trying to do whatever I could to help the team .
`` Whenever it did happen , I was thrilled and excited it was over .
Also , I felt very honored . ''
Officials stopped the game when Hansbrough , who now has 2,302 points , made the record-setting basket. Ford , an assistant coach with the Charlotte Bobcats , was posing for a courtside picture with two UNC students when the ball went through the net .
Ford , coach Roy Williams and director of athletics Dick Baddour presented Hansbrough with the gameball during the brief stoppage in play .
`` It 's an honor to be compared in the same breath with Tyler , '' Ford said .
`` When I look at how hard he plays and how he listens to Coach Williams , as a player , that 's what I tried to do .
As a player I would n't outrun a lot of people or outjump a lot of people - I was extremely quick , I will say that .
`` The only thing I had going for me is I played for a great coach who brought out the best abilities in the things I could do .
I think that 's what Tyler does . ''
The postgame ceremony featured comments from Williams , strength and conditioning coach Jonas Sahratian , Brendan Haywood , Marvin Williams , Raymond Felton , Antawn Jamison , Marcus Ginyard and Bobby Frasor .
It also included clips of Hansbrough 's dunk over 7-foot-7 Kenny George , his buzzer-beating shot against Virginia Tech in the 2008 ACC Tournament and his game-clinching 3-pointer at Duke as a freshman .
Ford made a favorable impression early in his UNC career at an unlikely sight : the Fetzer Field track .
Roy Williams recalled the effort Ford put forth to complete the team 's mile run in a predetermined amount of time .
`` The coaches are counting out the time as Phil Ford comes in there , and he dove across the line at Fetzer on the asphalt track , '' Williams said .
`` Tyler Hansbrough would have done that .
`` That , to me , is one of the most special things .
Phil Ford is one of the greatest competitors I 've ever seen , and Tyler Hansbrough is also .
There 's not a lot of people in that classroom . ''
Hansbrough , like Ford , declined an opportunity to leave school for the NBA following his junior season .
The fun of college is one reason Hansbrough , who 's on pace to take over the ACC career scoring mark currently held by Duke alum J.J. Redick , returned to UNC .
The Tar Heels are favored to win the national championship , but the pursuit of a title is n't always serious business even if Hansbrough 's interaction with teammates such as Larry Drew suggests otherwise .
`` There was a lot of hype around this game , but before the game the whole team is around playing Xbox and 'Mortal Kombat , ' '' Frasor said .
`` He 's getting into it , calling Larry a cheater .
Stuff like that you would n't get at a professional level . ''