The New Orleans Saints placed running back Reggie Bush on Injured Reserve Wednesday , ending the former first-round picks season two games short of the year 's finale with a sprained medial collateral ligament in his left knee .
Bush missed four games earlier this season after undergoing arthroscopic surgery to repair the meniscus on his left knee and it appears it was injured in the Saints ' Thursday night loss to Chicago .
`` Right now , for him , it 's going to be rehab and rest with it , '' Saints Head Coach Sean Payton said .
`` With two weeks remaining in the season , we thought that was the best way to go with his injury and allowed us acquire another player . ''
Payton added , `` He would n't be put on IR if we had more than two weeks or three weeks left in the season .
The news is fairly good , which is encouraging . ''
Bush was unavailable for comment Wednesday and will see Dr. James Andrews in Birmingham , Ala. , for further evaluation Friday .
He missed games against San Diego , Atlanta , Kansas City and Green Bay midway through this season after getting injured in New Orleans ' 30-7 Oct. 19 loss at Carolina .
Payton pulled Bush in the second half of the loss to the Bears and following the game , Bush expressed frustration with the move .
Saints quarterback Drew Brees understands .
`` He was frustrated. He 's not the only one , '' Brees said .
`` There 's a lot of guys who get frustrated when maybe you want to play and you 're not or you know you 're not 100 percent healthy and it 's affecting you .
That frustrates you . ''
`` He 's used to being the guy , '' Brees continued .
`` He 's used to being the one everyone counts on in the clutch situations , all the way from high school to college .
That 's what 's in his makeup .
That 's what 's in his blood .
He 's an extremely competitive guy . ''
The former USC running back and Heisman Trophy winner also missed the final four games of the 2007 season after tearing the posterior cruciate ligament in his left knee .
But Payton said the injuries this year are n't related to his injury a year ago and he 's not concerned with the long-term prognosis of the third-year pro .
`` We 're encouraged with the overall outlook and not having surgery it appears right now , '' Payton said .
Bush was named an alternate to the NFC Pro Bowl team on Tuesday .
Prior to getting injured , Bush was having a standout year .
Through 14 games in the 2008 season , Bush had 404 yards and two touchdowns on 106 carries , averaging 3.8 yards per run .
He also had 440 yards and four touchdowns receiving and had returned three punts for touchdowns .
`` I had a long visit with him ( Tuesday ) , '' Payton said .
`` Just disappointment in the way the season started. Certainly it was encouraging .
As we monitor his touches and we look at how many times he gets the ball , be it in the running game and passing game , we 'll find that right balance . ''