Manning picks apart Jaguars
Peyton Manning was nearly perfect , exactly what the Indianapolis Colts needed to overcome all the emotion the Jacksonville Jaguars got from Richard Collier 's return .
Manning completed his first 17 passes , picked apart Jacksonville 's secondary and led the Colts to their eighth consecutive win and seventh straight playoff berth .
Manning threw for 364 yards and three touchdowns , and the visiting Colts secured the No. 5 seed in the AFC playoffs with a 31-24 victory over the Jaguars on Thursday night .
They won without receiver Marvin Harrison ( hamstring ) , running back Joseph Addai ( shoulder ) and linebacker Gary Brackett ( leg ) .
The Jaguars ( 5-10 ) lost for the seventh time in the past nine games and fell to 2-6 at home this season .
This one may have been more emotionally draining than any of the others .
Collier , a 6-foot-7 offensive linemen paralyzed from the waist down following a shooting in early September , returned to the field for the first time and was recognized during pregame ceremonies .
He drove onto the field , sat next to his teammates during the national anthem and then headed to midfield as an honorary team captain for the coin toss .
`` It 's a bittersweet moment , '' Collier said .
`` I 'm here now , but I 'm not a player anymore .
But it 's also great with all the love that 's been shown from everybody .
It was like I 'm back at home .
Everybody showed me love .
It was good . ''
Adam `` Pacman '' Jones says the herniated disk in his neck that forced him to miss Dallas ' last game was bothering him even before he took a hard hit .
Jones was injured in the first quarter two Sundays ago at Pittsburgh in his first game after a six-week suspension for violating the league 's personal conduct policy .
He finished that game , but tests showed a herniated disk and there was talk of shutting him down for the season .
The short conversation at his locker made for Jones ' first public comments since before the alcohol-related scuffle with one of his bodyguards Oct. 7 that led to his suspension .
After not playing Sunday night against the New York Giants , Jones returned to practice this week after doctors re-evaluated his condition .
He is expected to start at cornerback and return kicks Saturday night against Baltimore .
Wide receiver Anquan Boldin and running back J.J. Arrington could be sidelined at New England on Sunday because of injuries .
Boldin has a shoulder injury .
Arrington has a sore knee .
They both sat out practice Wednesday and Thursday .
Tarvaris Jackson has reclaimed his starting spot at quarterback for Minnesota .
Coach Brad Childress said the decision has nothing to do with the health of Gus Frerotte and everything to do with the way Jackson has played the last two weeks .
The Vikings need a victory or a Chicago loss in the final two weeks to wrap up their first division title since 2000 .
St. Louis placed wide receiver and kick returner Derek Stanley and linebacker Gary Stills on injured reserve .
Stanley tore the anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee in Sunday 's loss to Seattle and is expected to be out six to eight months after surgery .
Stills had been playing with bone chips in his left knee and is scheduled to have surgery today .
Pro Bowl cornerback Cortland Finnegan was fined $ 25,000 by the NFL for two hard hits on Houston quarterback Matt Schaub last weekend .