Pinup icon Bettie Page died Thursday evening at a hospital in Los Angeles after having suffered a heart attack on Dec. 2 and spending time on life support , according to her official site .
Page was born on April 22 , 1923 , in Nashville , Tenn .
She began modeling in 1950 when she met New York City police officer and photographer Jerry Tibbs .
According to Page 's official website , by 1951 she was appearing in the men 's magazines Eyefull , Wink , Titter , and Beauty Parade .
In 1955 , Hugh Hefner asked Page to pose in a Playboy centerfold , a move that would help her seal her popularity and financial security decades later .
Page ended her modeling career in 1957 after turning to Christianity .
Despite never posing in sexually explicit poses ( only nude photos ) , Page became an unwitting sex symbol and a face of the sexual revolution in the nineteen sixties .
Her popularity rose again in the early 1990s but her insecurities kept her out of the spotlight .
She wanted her fans to remember her as she was in her heyday .
Adding to her bewilderment was the fact that this new popularity surge happened while Page was institutionalized in a Southern California mental facility after attacking a woman with a knife .
When she was released in 1992 , she found herself in the spotlight again , thanks in part to a movie called The Rocketeer , which played off of pulp fiction characters of the 30s and 40s , including the image of Bettie Page .
In spite of her renewed popularity , Page was n't receiving any royalty payments from her images .
Page signed on with agent James Swanson , who in turn set her up with Curtis Management Group , who fought to get her the pay she deserved .
Page came out of hiding in 2003 when she agreed to be photographed for Playboy .
This was her last public photograph .
Several biographies have been made , including her official biography Bettie Page:
The Life of a Pin-up Legend , and a biography by Richard Foster called The Real Bettie Page:
The Truth about the Queen of Pinup .
A movie called `` The Notorious Bettie Page '' was released in 2005 , which told the pinup 's story between the 1930s and the nineteen fifties .
Today , women still love to emulate her old-fashioned look , specifically her long black hair with bangs and red lipstick. Some people feel as if these women are unoriginal and failed to find an identity of their own , while others see this as the ultimate form of flattery .
Page was survived by her sister Joyce Wallace of Georgia , and her brother Jack Page , who lives in Nashville , Tennessee .