http : / / news . mongabay . com / 2009 / 0428 - hance _ esa . html
Obama administration overturns rule that weakened Endangered Species Act
April 28 , 2009
Interior Secretary Ken Salazar announced today that the Obama administration will reverse an Endangered Species Act ( ESA ) regulation that allowed federal agencies to go ahead with actions that may impact endangered species without consulting with experts , essentially circumventing the role of conservation scientists in such decisions .
"By rolling back this eleventh - hour regulation , we are ensuring that threatened and endangered species continue to receive the full protection of the law" said Salazar .
The change to the ESA was made last December by the Bush administration and drew heavy criticism from environmental and conservation groups .
At the time , during heavy campaigning , Obama stated that he opposed the last minute rule changes with a spokesman stating : “ As president , Senator Obama will fight to maintain the strong protections of the Endangered Species Act and undo this proposal from President Bush . ”
Darin Schroeder , Vice President for Conservation Advocacy at the environmental organization , American Bird Conservancy , agreed with Salazar ’ s decision .
“ We are gratified Secretary Salazar and Secretary Locke acted to restore the Endangered Species Act to its intended strength .
The consultation process is one of the cornerstones of the ESA , and one of the key checks and balances that ensures protection for the 90 birds and 1 , 263 other animals and plants it covers . ”
Another anticipated ruling regarding polar bears has not been announced yet .
While the Bush administration found that melting ice in the Arctic due to climate change was endangering polar bears , they ruled that the ESA could not used to regulate carbon emissions in order to protect the polar bear .
Salazar must make a judgment on this rule by May 9th .
“ Secretary Salazar took an important step today toward restoring needed protections for endangered species , ” said Noah Greenwald , biodiversity program director for the Center for Biological Diversity .
“ But he still needs to rescind the special rule for the polar bear , which amounts to a death sentence for the majestic bear because it exempts greenhouse gas emissions from regulation . ”