A man with a long history of domestic violence has been accused of stabbing his mother and a former girlfriend to death and leaving their bodies in an apartment for several days .
The unlit stove in the Independence Street apartment had been left on full blast , authorities said , filling it with enough natural gas to cause a significant explosion .
The body of Katherine Gomes , 61 , and Robyn Norma Mendes , 48 , were discovered on Tuesday when police and firefighters responded to calls about the smell of natural gas , according to the Bristol district attorney 's office. A space heater had been left turned to high , but it did not ignite the gas .
The man , Gary Gomes , 35 , is expected to be arraigned today in New Bedford District Court on two counts of murder and one count of kidnapping .
Gomes was arrested on Tuesday after investigators said they found him barricaded in a room in Mendes 's apartment on Philip Street with her 12-year-old daughter .
He was with the girl for at least several hours before police arrived , according to Gregg Miliote , a spokesman for the Bristol district attorney .
Gomes has been incarcerated at least three times for violent crimes against women in the last four years and at one point was held for 90 days without bail as a danger to society , according to court records .
The alleged fatal stabbing would be at least his third attack against Mendes .
In 2005 , Gomes was convicted of beating Mendes , holding a knife to her throat , and telling her , `` you 're never going to leave me , '' according to court records .
Gomes served 9 months of a 2-1/2 year sentence .
He was released in 2006 and attacked Mendes again , dragging her into the woods .
Police rescued her with the aid of dogs , according to court records .
Mendes went back to prison for 2-1/2 years and was recently released .
In 2004 , Gomes was charged with stealing a $ 500 guitar from his sister , Jean .
Gomes ran into Jean and his mother a few days later and he attacked his sister , according to court records .
`` Defendant became violent and began to choke the victim with both hands around her neck , '' the records state .