http : / / www . stampedeblue . com / 2012 / 12 / 23 / 3798938 / colts - beat - chiefs - 20 - 13 - clinch - 5th - seed - in - afc - playoffs
Colts Beat Chiefs 20 - 13 , Clinch 5th Seed In AFC Playoffs
on Dec 23 2012 , 5 : 03p
Andrew Luck wielded his fourth quarter magic wand yet again , willing Colts to victory over hapless Chiefs and into the 2012 playoffs !
What a remarkable story .
Too bad the game that put the 2012 Indianapolis Colts into the playoffs was such a dud .
But , a win is a win , and prior to the start of the 2012 regular season , very few ( if any ! ) people had the Colts winning ten games and earning a post - season birth .
On Sunday , in their Week 16 match - up with a Kansas City team some thought would be a playoff contender in 2012 , the Colts took care of business and dispatched the Chiefs 20 - 13 .
The key to the game was ( drrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrums rolling . . . ) turnovers !
Kansas City had several .
The Colts had zilcho .
Two Brady Quinn interceptions and a boneheaded fumbled by Jamaal Charles were what won this game for the Colts .
That , and some fourth quarter heroics by the offense , but mostly it was KC just being really , really bad .
For the second time this season , Darius Butler picked off a pass and returned it for a TD .
In this game , he did it on KC's opening driving , scooping the ball off the turf and scampering in from 32 yards out to give the Colts a 7 - 0 lead .
Unfortunately , the Colts offense simply could not sustain drives .
Dropped passes ( I counted three ) were the bane of Indy's offense early on .
Because drives could not be sustained , the Chiefs began to gash the Colts in the running game .
KC blasted Indy with 352 net rushing yards .
Three hundred and fifty two !
Jesus H . Christ !
Still , to further illustrate to you , our well - informed readers , how running the football is nearly meaningless in this league , the Chiefs never led in this game despite running all over an extremely porous and injured Colts defense .
Part of the reason KC ran so effectively was the awful play of Pat Angerer , how should so obviously be on IR right now it's not even funny .
He redeemed himself a bit by forcing a critical fumble late in the second quarter , but that play was mostly the fumble - prone Jamaal Charles ( 3 on the season ) being careless with the ball .
Still , despite three turnovers , KC managed to tie the game going itno the fourth .
Then , as he has done so many times this year , Andrew Luck wielded his magic wand and willed the Colts to victory .
The Colts offense went on a 13 - play drive starting at their own 27 , ate up 6 : 05 of the clock , and capped it off with a 7 - yard touchdown pass from Luck to ( who else ) Reggie Wayne .
Ballgame .
20 - 13 .
Colts win .
The Colts are the second team in NFL history to make the post - season the year after posting a 2 - 14 ( or worse ) record the year prior .
Andrew Luck set an NFL record , throwing for 205 yards in the game , swelling his season yardage to 4 , 183 .
Cam Newton in 2011 had the previous record with 4 , 051 yards .
The guy who had it before Cam ?
Peyton Manning in 1998 with 3 , 739 .
Luck's fourth quarter drive was his 7th game - winning drive this season .
That's both a rookie record and an NFL record .
No QB has ever had seven game - winning drives in one year .
Unbelievable .
Dwayne Allen also got into the record books .
He eclipsed Ken Dilger's franchise record for catches by a rookie tight end in one season .
Allen had three catches on Sunday , bringing his season total to 43 .
Dilger had 42 in 1995 .
Dilger's quarterback that year ?
Jim Harbaugh , the man who would go on to recruit Andrew Luck at Stanford before going to to coach the San Francisco 49ers .
with the win in KC , coupled with the Steelers losing to the Bengals 13 - 10 , all the teams in the AFC playoffs are set .
Also locked up is the No . 5 seed for the Colts .
They will face the No . 4 seed , which could mean a trip to Baltimore to face the Ravens , the team Chuck Pagano used to coach for .
Speaking of Pagano , he is scheduled to return to work full - time tomorrow as the head coach after taking a leave of absence to battle leukemia .
His cancer is now in remission , and he returns to a team that is bound for the post - season .
Wonderful story .
Wonderful season .
Couldn't ask for anything more .
Well , except one thing . . .
win in the playoffs !
Go Colts