http : / / www . dailymail . co . uk / news / article - 2338439 / Cumbria - double - murder - Son - suspected - killing - mother - sister - begged - stay - locked - mental - hospital . html
Son suspected of killing mother and sister 'had begged to stay locked up in mental hospital'
John Jenkin , 23 , released from secure mental hospital against his wishes
His sister Katie Jenkin , 20 , and mother Alice McMeekin , 58 , were found dead in a home in Millom , Cumbria
Relative said he had history of mental health problems
Police not searching for any other suspects in connection with double murders
PUBLISHED : 16 : 05 GMT , 9 June 2013 | UPDATED : 06 : 55 GMT , 10 June 2013
A man said to have been released from a secure mental hospital against his wishes was yesterday being questioned over the murders of his mother and sister .
John Jenkin , 23 , had been sectioned after an apparent suicide attempt in the week before the double murder .
According to a relative , he had a history of mental health problems and had pleaded in vain to be kept locked up because he feared harming himself or someone else .
Police were called to the family's terraced house in Millom , Cumbria , at 8 . 40am on Saturday and found the bodies of Alice McMeekin , 58 , and her university student daughter Katie Jenkin , 20 .
The family's new pet collie , Fenn , was also killed .
Jenkin , who was described as a Goth , was arrested nearby on suspicion of murder .
He was said to have doted on his mother and younger sister , but the heavy metal fan was also obsessed with the occult .
Cumbria police have not revealed how the women died , although no gun was used in the murders .
Friends and neighbours were shocked by the murders of the animal - loving divorced mother - of - two and her daughter , who was studying in South Wales and was on a weekend visit home .
Yesterday a neighbour recalled seeing the suspect in the street at 3am on Saturday and also hearing screams coming from the pebble - dashed house .
'I was coming back home at 3am with my girlfriend and I was walking up the back street and he was walking around and I looked at his face and it was like looking into space , there was nothing there , ' he said .
'Then I went home and I heard a lot of screams .
It sounded like the screams of a dog .
I went into my backyard and I heard these piercing screams I will never forget . '
He did not contact the police , but more noise was heard at around 8am .
'It sounded like someone telling a dog to shut up , ' said the neighbour .
Police were called and found the bodies .
Jenkin , who is unemployed , spent much of his time on his computer and listening to music .
According to a relative , he had suffered mental health problems for some time .
'He's had a very dark past , but I don't want people to think he is some kind of monster , I just feel sorry for him , ' she said .
The relative said he was sectioned under the Mental Health Act for attempting to slit his wrists and then allowed home again in the days before the tragedy .
She said he had told health workers that he feared he would harm himself or someone else if he did not stay in a secure psychiatric unit .
'John begged people for help , but he didn't get it , ' she said .
Friends said John Jenkin was close to his family .
One friend , who asked not to be named , said : 'He idolised his mum and his sister .
His little sister was his world , and his mum was too .
They all looked after each other .
He was a good kid , never one of those to go out and get into trouble . '
Mrs McMeekin was brought up in Millom and was the daughter of a greengrocer .
She moved to Merthyr Tydfil , South Wales , four years ago 'to give her kids a better life' , but returned to her home town with John 12 weeks ago .
She worked for the prison service and 'would do anything for anybody' , according to the friend .
Katie , who was in a steady relationship with a boyfriend , stayed in Wales to continue her media studies course .
'She was a happy , beautiful girl with the world in front of her , ' said the friend .
She recalled chatting on Friday to Mrs McMeekin , who was looking forward to her daughter's visit .