http : / / hillnholler . net / 2012 / 12 / 23 / chiefs - lose - 20 - 13 - to - a - fourth - quarter - indianapolis - colt - stampede /
Chiefs lose 20 - 13 to a fourth quarter Indianapolis Colt stampede
Sunday 23 Dec 2012
The Kansas City Chiefs lost possibly the best game they ’ ve played this season .
They lost to a fourth quarter Colt stampede 20 - 13 .
This time it was coach Romeo Crennel ’ s fault .
There they were on the Colts 27 - yard line with inches to go for a first down and Crennel decides to go for it .
He should have played it safe with a field goal .
They blew it on a quarterback sneak .
The score was tied 13 - 13 .
They handed the ball over to the Colts at the 27 - yard line and the Colts took it back down the field for a fourth quarter touchdown and won the game .
This was a game that saw a great performance by their running backs Jamaal Charles and former Razorback Peyton Hillis .
Charles turned in a 86 - yard touchdown run and rushed for a total of 226 yards and Hillis rushed for more than a hundred yards .
Put it all together and the Chiefs gained 507 yards and still managed — through penalties , interceptions and fumbles — to lose the game .
Astounding !
This gave the Colts a 9 - 5 season and eligibility for the playoffs .
I guess it ’ s possible to put together a team that so consistently shoots itself in the foot , but the Chiefs are an incredible collection of screwups with a few brilliant players who come out every week and make it look like it might be a football team .
But are usually thwarted by the goofups ; some must come off that field shaking their heads and fondering in frustration .
This is the Chiefs ’ last home game of the season , and it would have been nice if they could have won it .
Oh well , next week they journey to Denver to take on the Broncos in their mile high city with their rarified air .
Denver is not going to be a pushover .
The Broncos are 12 - 3 for the season after defeating the Cleveland Browns 34 - 12 Sunday .
Denver is up for the number one seed and the Chiefs down in the basement with a 2 - 13 season .
Hope springs eternal . . . .