http : / / mybroadband . co . za / news / broadband / 35788 - mweb - updates - customers - on - seacom - downtime . html
MWEB updates customers on SEACOM downtime
SEACOM downtime has local ISPs scrambling to keep customers online ; MWEB issues an update
October 11 , 2011
Summary : MWEB has managed to restore 83% of the required capacity on SEACOM .
P2P protocols will remain shaped to prioritise critical traffic .
The SEACOM undersea cable , which provides a data link between South Africa , Europe and India , experienced downtime beginning on Saturday 8 October 2011 , caused by a problem on a cable between Abu Talat ( Egypt ) and Marseilles ( France ) .
This outage will likely only be fully resolved sometime during the week beginning 17 October 2011 .
Meanwhile , local Internet Service Providers ( ISPs ) who use bandwidth on the SEACOM cable have been scrambling to implement contingency plans to keep their customers connected .
MWEB operations has issued an update regarding the SEACOM downtime to its customers .
"Some more bandwidth was brought online last night [ 10 October 2011 ] bringing us up to 83% of our required capacity .
We allowed P2P traffic to run from midnight to 7am , after which it had to give way for critical traffic again . "
"We are working on having the remaining capacity restored during the course of the day , after which all traffic priorities will return to normal , " said MWEB Operations .
SEACOM has previously issued a statement on the current problem with the cable :
"Initial estimates indicate that the total repair time will be around twelve days depending on weather conditions .
This entails gaining the necessary permits and the actual repair time .
A repair vessel has been notified of the call - out and mobilization will occur immediately once permits are received , " SEACOM said in an official statement .
"The outage initially affected all SEACOM traffic to Europe , however SEACOM was able to restore some services by Saturday afternoon [ 8 October 2011 ] . "
"Further restoration has continued throughout the weekend in cooperation with customers and partners and SEACOM will continue to actively work on securing additional capacity for all necessary services over the next day or two . "