Police Release ID Of Woman Killed In Parking Lot
According to police , Anthony LaSalle , 36 , of Minneapolis , hit and killed a 66-year-old LuAnn Marie Johnson in the parking lot of the Bloomington Sam 's Club Wednesday night .
Holiday shopping turned traumatic for dozens of people in Bloomington Wednesday night after a woman was killed right in front of them , while her husband struggled to keep her alive .
Police said Johnsonwas in the crosswalk around 7 p.m. when the car first hit her .
The driver , LaSalle , then paused as Johnson 's husband tried to stop him .
Then LaSalle hit the gas , running her over and dragging her as he tried to get away .
`` The moment he hit that gas , I went , that woman just died , '' said WCCO TV Managing Editor Angela Benson .
Just seconds before , Benson and her two young sons were walking in the same crosswalk .
`` I turned around and there 's a man telling a car 'No , no , no , stop , wait a second . '
And there 's a woman laying on the ground in front of the tire , '' recalled Benson .
She said the driver then gunned the car and took off , hitting several cars in the parking lot along the way .
`` He hit her and rolled over her , and she rolled under his car a good 10 feet , '' Benson said .
Police caught up to him after he rear-ended a parked car at a stop light on Lyndale Avenue .
`` The driver was uncooperative , made some veiled threats that they 'd have to shoot him to get him out .
He was subsequently tased by police , '' said Bloomington Police Sgt. Marty Earley .
Meantime , Salvation Army bell ringer Michael Gallagher ran to help Johnson and her hysterical husband .
`` He was pretty shook up .
He tried to provide first aid for her , and tried to provide comfort for her , '' said Earley .
Gallagher was back on the job the next day .
He had only one thing to say about the horrible thing he saw the night before .
`` Our hearts and prayers go out to the man and his wife who died , '' he said .
That 's something that Benson echoes .
`` I just feel sad , I feel really sad for that man crying over his wife , '' she said .
Police arrested LaSalle for drunk driving .
According to his police record , this is his second DWI and he uses the alias `` Crazy T '' .
He 's expected to be charged with the hit-and-run by noon on Friday .
Investigators say Sam 's Club is looking over its surveillance tape and will hand it over to police to check out .
A Sam 's Club spokesperson said this is a terrible tragedy and their hearts and thoughts are with the woman 's family .