The historical record will show that with 7:42 remaining in the first half against Evansville 's Purple Aces , Tyler Hansbrough became UNC 's all-time leading scorer , slipping a screen , fighting through a double-team , and banking in a two-pointer for his tenth point of the game and the 2,292nd point of his career .
The record will show this in no small part because at least 20 sportswriters were diligently typing behind the home basket , writing versions of the same words at the very same moment .
If there was going to be any mistake , it was quickly corrected by Carolina 's sports information army , abuzz all evening to ensure the moment was preserved perfectly .
Then there were the photographers , on hand to document each move , each point , each congratulatory handshake .
Beyond them , more than 20,000 witnesses ran their own internal documentary systems , surely thinking about how they 'll tell future generations of Tar Heel fans that they were present .
Some might remember the moment coming at 7:41 , a tick of a second later than the actual basket , when the game clock was stopped for a tastefully brief ceremony and the obligatory photo op .
Let the record show their memories were wrong , but it wo n't diminish the telling and retelling until history becomes legend , as it usually does .
Often history happens in quieter places , witnessed by fewer people , not fully appreciated or understood until much later .
But this episode was not left for chance .
It had been anticipated for months , ever since Carolina 's lunch-bucket All-American decided to return for his senior season -- not because he cared a lick about breaking Phil Ford 's almost 30-year-old record , but because he loves student life on campus , loves basketball , and wanted to keep doing both at the same time as long as possible .
The only hitch in the script was a sore shin and a twisted ankle that deferred the night for a few weeks , into late December , an early Christmas gift to the faithful who filled ( well , almost filled ) the Smith Center on a misty night .
Everything else followed the script nicely .
ESPN dutifully ensured a national audience would share the moment on television .
Then Hansbrough 's father , Gene , made his surprise arrival at a game he was n't expected to attend .
But how could he miss it , really ?
Having nurtured his son 's talent and his competitive drive and his character and everything else along the way , history demanded he be in his seat , ready to stand and salute his son as he swallowed down the lump in his throat and expressed his love and thanks .
Evansville proved the story 's perfect villain , keeping it close through the early stages , and giving an already charged-up crowd opportunity to boo lustily as the Purple Aces ' physical big men knocked Hansbrough to the ground on several occasions .
Did n't they know that 's how Hansbrough would have wanted it -- physically challenged , and therefore determined to crush them into submission ?
Ford , meanwhile , made a gentlemanly entrance , gracefully shook hands with fans of all ages , posed for pictures , and waited in the wings for history to arrive .
After it did , he was pure class , thanking Roy Williams , Hansbrough , and the university for asking him to be a part of the night .
`` It 's a dream come true for me , '' he said , sounding genuinely honored to be passing the torch to a player who , like him , gave his best for the program and properly understands that team success , not individual records , are the real measure of success .
Even with the game underway and subject to unpredictable bounces , an official 's phantom call , or some other twist of fate , the script held .
The first points came from the foul line , swishing through the basket without a doubt , as they have more often than for any other Carolina player before him .
One reminder of greatness in the books .
The next points rapidly followed on a series of jumpers , well beyond the range of anything doubters expected the brawling forward to hit on a regular basis when he was a freshman .
`` I 'll prove you wrong , '' you could almost hear him thinking as he hit each one , showcasing the senior 's evolution into a complete player .
Another reminder : players like this come along only once in a generation .
Then there was the struggle , as teammates worked to get him the ball in scoring position .
Having told everyone he wanted to break the record on a three , he camped out on the wing for one possession but failed to get a touch .
On another , he posted hard inside as Danny Green took and missed an open three ;
as the Heels ran to the other end , Williams appeared to holler at Green for failing to look inside first .
On this night , with history looming , even good quality shots needed to wait for the moment .
But the struggle was needed , too .
Has n't that been the essence of Carolina 's working-class hero : the battler , scrapping for everything , finding success as much through passion as through athletic ability or skill ?
It took will -- and a brief stint on the bench -- before the moment came .
Then , sure as sure , it did .
Because it did , a number of things will be quickly forgotten .
Though Tywon Lawson had another dominant performance and Danny Green ( who broke a milestone of his own with his 1,000th career point ) showcased the increasingly confident game that makes his summer draft experiment seem less surprising , the Tar Heels grinded their way through a game with 16 turnovers -- two more than Evansville -- and only 17 assists .
Deon Thompson never established a rhythm , taken out of his finesse game by the Purple Aces ' physical style .
Early in the second half , Williams yanked out all five starters and replaced them with a Blue Team , unhappy with the focus and effort .
And Wayne Ellington 's shooting slump continued , his normally perfect stroke disconcertingly slow to return from the finals break .
It was another double-digit win , and against a quality mid-major opponent , but a work of art it was n't .
Hansbrough , who looked as though he was pressing all night despite finishing with another 20-point , 9-rebound performance , admitted to the nerves .
They were particularly evident on his next touch after the record-breaking points , when Hansbrough stole an inbounds pass , only to brick a dunk attempt off the back of the rim -- another moment that will probably be erased as history gives way to legend .
`` I felt like there was a lot of pressure , '' he said .
`` I did n't want to strictly focus on the scoring record .
We had a game and I was trying to do whatever I could to help the team .
Now I 'm glad it 's over , and I 'm ready to move on . ''
Williams agreed .
`` I said , `` I 'm glad we got that behind us , now let 's focus on playing better , and let 's focus on guarding somebody . ''
I do n't look up at the scoreboard , but it was the first time that I can ever remember counting points in my head .
So when [ the shot ] goes in , it was immediately a feeling of elation , and [ then ] a feeling of relief that we got that out of the way . ''
Danny Green acknowledged the team was ready to move on as well .
`` Yeah , definitely , '' he said .
`` The one record we want to break is the winning record , going undefeated for an entire season and hopefully getting a national championship .
That 's the record I want to achieve . ''
History will remember this night , the emotions of the tribute video that followed the game , and the warmth of the celebratory laughter in the media room .
But in the locker room , business remained .
And in a brief quote that will probably be lost to memory , Phil Ford told the real story of the night in words that will echo until winter turns to spring .
`` When I was coach here , if we did n't make the Final Four , it was a bad season , '' he said .
`` And now , this guy , '' he continued , looking to Hansbrough , '' if he does n't win a national title , he has a bad season . ''
Hansbrough did n't flinch , but the eyes flashed with recognition .
The record is set , but history is still waiting .