An arsonist has badly damaged the church attended by the Governor of Alaska , Sarah Palin , and she has apologised if the fire was connected to `` undeserved negative attention '' from her failed campaign as the Republican vice-presidential nominee .
No one was hurt in the fire on Friday night although a handful of people , including two children , were inside the Wasilla Bible Church , said the Central Mat-Su fire chief , James Steele .
Ms Palin visited the church on Saturday .
Her spokesman , Bill McAllister , said , `` Whatever the motives of the arsonist , the Governor has faith in the scriptural passage that what was intended for evil will in some way be used for good . ''
Mr Steele said the blaze was being treated as arson , but he did not know of any threats to the church .
Authorities also did not know whether Mrs Palin 's connection to the church was relevant to the fire .
`` It 's hard to say at this point .
Everything is just speculation , '' he said .
`` We have no information on intent or motive . ''
Damage to the church was estimated at $ US1 million ( $ 1.52 million ) , authorities said .
Mr Steele said the fire was lit at the entrance and moved inward as a small group of women were working on crafts .
A fire alarm alerted them to the fire .
Firefighters fought the blaze in temperatures of minus 17 degrees .
The pastor , Larry Kroon , declined to say whether the church had received any recent threats .
`` There are so many variables , '' he said .
`` I do n't want to comment in that direction . ''
The 1000-member evangelical church was the subject of scrutiny after Mrs Palin was named John McCain 's Republican Party running mate .
Early in her campaign , the church was criticised for promoting a Focus on the Family `` Love Won Out Conference '' in Anchorage .
It promised to `` help men and women dissatisfied with living homosexually understand that same-sex attractions can be overcome '' .
Wasilla , Mrs Palin 's home town , is 64 kilometres north of Anchorage .