Summit Entertainment announced today that filmmaker Chris Weitz has been hired to direct the second film in the studio 's TWILIGHT film franchise .
The film , NEW MOON , is based on the second book in author Stephenie Meyer 's blockbuster book series .
The announcement was made by Erik Feig , Summit 's President of Production .
Weitz , an Academy Award ( R ) -nominated writer , director and producer , has a proven track record working with a broad range of material dealing with youth- oriented characters , fantasy and action .
As such , he has the potential to bring alive in NEW MOON the dimensions and depth that fans will demand in the next installment .
Feig stated , `` We love Stephenie Meyer 's fantastic TWILIGHT series .
Thinking long and hard about how to turn NEW MOON into the amazing movie we know it will be , and working with Stephenie Meyer to find the right candidate , we are thrilled to announce Chris Weitz as director of the film .
Chris very much understands the world of NEW MOON and has the skill set required to bring the book to glorious life as a movie .
We think he will be an excellent steward of Stephenie Meyer 's vision . ''
`` I am honored to have been entrusted with shepherding NEW MOON from the page to the screen , '' said Weitz .
`` The extraordinary world that Stephenie has created has millions of fans , and it will be my duty to protect on their behalf the characters , themes and story they love .
This is not a task to be taken lightly , and I will put every effort into realizing a beautiful film to stand alongside a beautiful book . ''
Weitz previously penned ABOUT A BOY , which led to an Academy Award Nomination for Best Adapted Screenplay in 2002 , and adapted and directed THE GOLDEN COMPASS ( 2007 ) , which was nominated for two Academy Awards and won the Academy Award for Best Visual Effects .
Additionally , Weitz co-wrote the 1998 animated film ANTZ and went on to produce the major box office success AMERICAN PIE and executive produced the film 's two theatrical sequels .
Weitz also produced IN GOOD COMPANY starring Dennis Quaid and Topher Grace and executive produced AMERICAN DREAMZ starring Hugh Grant , Dennis Quaid and Mandy Moore .
In NEW MOON , Bella Swan ( Kristen Stewart ) is devastated by the abrupt departure of her vampire love , Edward Cullen ( Robert Pattinson ) but her spirit is rekindled by her growing friendship with the irresistible Jacob Black .
Suddenly she finds herself drawn into the world of the werewolves , ancestral enemies of the vampires , and finds her loyalties tested .
Production on NEW MOON is scheduled to begin in the coming months and the studio is planning to release the film towards the end of 2009 or early 2010 .
Feig will oversee NEW MOON for the studio along with Summit Entertainment 's Director of Production Gillian Bohrer .
Weitz is represented by WMA and by Alex Kohner of Morris , Yorn , Barnes and Levine .
About the TWILIGHT film series
The TWILIGHT film series stars Robert Pattinson and Kristen Stewart and tells the story of 17-year-old Bella Swan who moves to the small town of Forks , Washington to live with her father , and becomes drawn to Edward Cullen , a pale , mysterious classmate who seems determined to push her away .
But neither can deny the attraction that pulls them together ... even when Edward confides that he and his family are vampires .
The action-packed , modern day vampire love story and blockbuster success the first film in the series entitled TWILIGHT was released in theatres on November 21st grossing $ 69.6 million domestically during its first weekend .
To date the film has grossed over $ 142 million domestically .
About Summit Entertainment LLC
Summit Entertainment is a worldwide theatrical motion picture development , financing , production and distribution studio .
The studio handles all aspects of marketing and distribution for both its own internally developed motion pictures as well as acquired pictures .
Summit Entertainment , LLC also represents international sales for both its own slate and third party product .
Summit Entertainment , LLC plans to release 10 to 12 films annually .
SOURCE Summit Entertainment