The New Bedford man arrested last night on charges of double homicide killed his mother and ex-girlfriend , according to police and prosecutors .
The suspect , Gary Gomes , 35 , of New Bedford , has a lengthy record of domestic abuse , including convictions for kidnapping and attempted murder .
He was currently on probation after his latest release from criminal custody .
The victims in the case have been identified as Robyn Mendes , 48 - an ex-girlfriend of Mr. Gomes - and Catherine Gomes , 61 , the defendant 's mother .
Gregg Milliote , spokesman for the Bristol County District Attorney 's Office , said both women were stabbed multiple times at the Independent Street apartment in which they were found .
Ms. Gomes was the tenant at the apartment .
Following his arraignment in New Bedford District Court today , Mr. Gomes was ordered held without bail .
At the arraignment , prosecutor Aaron Strojny said Ms. Mendes was stabbed multiple times while in bed .
`` I ( heart ) you '' was written in blood on the wall and the suspect 's ID was found on a pillow , he said , and alleged the suspect later dressed Ms. Mendes and applied makeup .
Ms. Gomes ' body was found under a mattress in a different room .
She had last been seen Saturday morning , prosecutors said , and when her employer called the apartment later that day to inquire why she had not reported to work , a man who identified himself as Gary said his mother had gone away for a few days .
Mr. Gomes was found Tuesday night barricaded in a dwelling on Phillips Road in the North End where Ms. Mendes lived .
Ms. Mendes ' 12-year-old daughter was also in that dwelling at the time .
Police say Gomes had been at that location for `` a few hours '' before his arrest .
They found a knife , which they identified as the murder weapon , behind a bookshelf .
Mr. Milliote said prosecutors believe Mr. Gomes intended to kill one other person last night , although he would n't say who that person was or what evidence led prosecutors to believe that .
Mr. Gomes had been released from the Bristol County House of Correction in late 2008 after serving time on a 2006 conviction of assault with intent to murder .
Ms. Mendes was the victim in that case .
In 2005 , he was charged with assault and battery on Ms. Mendes with a dangerous weapon , according to court records , which indicate he grabbed her by the throat , threw her down , then held a knife to her throat and told her , `` You 're never going to leave me . ''
He was sentenced to 2 1/2 years , with 9 months to serve in that case .
Court records also indicate a previous arrest in which Mr. Gomes was accused of assault and battery on his sister after she accused him of stealing her guitar .
His mother was a witness to that incident .
Ms. Mendes had obtained restraining orders against Mr. Gomes in 2005 and 2006 , according to court records .
The victims ' bodies were discovered inside the Independent Street apartment Tuesday afternoon after the building 's landlord detected the odor of natural gas emanating from the second floor .
Police said that after smelling gas , the landlord , who has not been identified , sent his adult son upstairs to investigate .
The son entered the apartment and found the bodies , police said .
The gas stove was running with no flame , police said , and an electric heater had been turned on in the apartment .