http : / / www . examiner . com / article / indianapolis - colts - clinch - playoff - berth - with - win - over - kansas - city - chiefs
Indianapolis Colts clinch playoff berth with win over Kansas City Chiefs
December 23 , 2012
Going into week 16 , the Indianapolis Colts controlled their own destiny of making it to post - season play .
The Colts could clinch a playoff berth with a win over the Kansas City Chiefs or a Pittsburgh Steelers loss .
As they have done all season , the Colts refused to let their fate be decided by anyone other than themselves .
The young team fought hard to defeat the Chiefs in another fourth quarter victory , 20 - 13 .
Although they started the game with a three - and - out , the Colts were able to light up the scoreboard first .
Corner back Darius Butler intercepted Brady Quinn for a 32 yard defensive touchdown .
This was Butler's second pick - six of the season , his first against the Jacksonville Jaguars .
The Colts defense was able to keep the Chiefs out of the end zone in the first half .
Throughout the game , the Chiefs defense and running game posed a serious threat to the Colts shot at the playoffs .
The Chiefs rushed for over 350 yards giving their two leading running backs over 100 yards each .
Jamaal Charles rushed for 226 yards while Peyton Hillis added 101 .
Kansas City emerged from the locker room with an extra burst of energy .
Charles kicked off the second half with an 86 yard rushing touchdown .
Despite their intimidating numbers on the ground , the Chiefs were not able to find any consistency in their passing game .
Aside from Charles' second quarter score , Kansas City failed to find themselves in the end zone .
A Ryan Succop field goal tied the game at 13 late in the third quarter .
After failing to convert on a crucial fourth down , the Chiefs gave the Colts possession early in the fourth .
As they have done a number of times in the fourth quarter , the Colts capitalized on this opportunity .
Andrew Luck completed his first and only touchdown pass of the day to Reggie Wayne , putting the Colts up once again .
In the end , the Colts held on to their 20 - 13 lead , winning the game and securing a spot in the playoffs .
The Colts now will end the season with a double digit number in the win column , five times as many as last season .
Indianapolis' head coach Chuck Pagano , is expected to rejoin his team just as they prepare for the post - season .
Pagano has proven to be a source of motivation and inspiration to the Colts this season .
The odds may be stacked against them , the Colts certainly have what it takes to make the unbelievable happen .
They have overcome a number of obstacles this season , far surpassing any expectations placed upon them .
The Colts will face their division rivals , the Houston Texans , at home in Indianapolis for their final game of the regular season .
The Colts were defeated by the Texans in week 14 .
With a clinched playoff berth , the Colts can focus on how they will match up against a playoff - caliber team before Wildcard Weekend .