Heavyweight Champion , Wladimir Klitschko , 53-3 , 47 KO 's , easily dismantled former 2-Time Heavyweight Champion , Hasim Rahman , 45-7-2 , 36 KO 's , in the seventh round .
Rahman never gave himself a chance , standing on the outside and not ever getting any aggression going .
Two things were very apparent in this fight .
One , Rahman has nothing left , and two , Wlad is as good as he 's ever been .
Throw out the fact that `` The Rock '' is n't what he once was .
Nobody has ever dominated him this way , and really neutralized him from the start of the fight .
Klitschko used his great jab and distance fighting to stay out of harm 's way and it 's hard to think of any heavyweight outside of David Haye giving him any run for his money .
Chris Arreola has been named and hyped incredibly but would probably give an effort before being stopped in a round or two .
Alexander Povetkin might want to rethink his title shot because there does n't seem to be a way for him to overcome all of the advantages that the champion has .
The weak heavyweight division does n't seem to have much to offer the champion .
The two interesting fights that are out there for Wlad are a showdown with WBA Champion , Nikolay Valuev or a bout with David Haye .
Former Heavyweight Champion , Riddick Bowe , 43-1 , 33 KO 's , returned to the ring with an eight round decision win over Gene Pukall , 14-13-2 , 12 KO 's .
In 2005 , Bowe barely escaped with a decision over Billy Zumbrun and all the signs were there that he should never step into the ring again .
When he beat and reportedly stabbed his wife , Bowe cited brain injury from boxing blows as the reason for his bad behavior , but now that brain damage has disappeared apparently and he is back in the ring and on the road to real injury should he face somebody that can fight a tad .
The only defeat on Bowe 's record was a loss to Evander Holyfield in 1993 , but it can be argued that he was well on his way to losing both fights with Andrew Golota in 1996 before the `` Foul Pole '' got himself disqualified with frequent and impressive low blows .
It was the only time that I have ever seen a three punch combo downstairs and was probably the first for Bowe .
It can even be argued that Bowe lost to Zumbrun .
The fact is that he should n't be in the ring at all but this is boxing and I 'm sure that the former champion needs the money and that is why he is risking his life .