http : / / www . nydailynews . com / new - york / 7 - nypd - bullets - killed - teen - kimani - gray - article - 1 . 1287452
Enraged protesters battle cops in Brooklyn streets during third night of rioting after it's revealed that 16 - year - old Kimani Gray was shot in the back
As fights between cops and angry teens erupted in East Flatbush , 46 were arrested Wednesday night .
Police struggled to control a furious crowd that broke away from a planned peaceful vigil .
PUBLISHED : WEDNESDAY , MARCH 13 , 2013 , 2 : 29 PM
UPDATED : THURSDAY , MARCH 14 , 2013 , 9 : 31 AM
Protesters enraged over the fatal shooting of a teenager by police poured into Brooklyn streets for a third straight night Wednesday , pitching bricks , bottles and garbage in furious clashes with cops .
At least 46 demonstrators were arrested along Church Ave . in East Flatbush .
Police struggled to control a hostile crowd that broke away from a planned peaceful vigil for Kimani ( Kiki ) Gray , 16 , killed by police on Saturday night .
Gray ’ s sister Mahnefeh was among those arrested .
A police officer suffered a gash in the face when a tossed brick hit him , NYPD spokesman Paul Browne said , and a window was smashed in an inspector ’ s car .
“ They didn ’ t have to kill him , ” Makaeo Williams , 18 , said as police on motorcycles tracked alongside him .
“ I ’ m feeling mad inside .
I ’ m angry .
That ’ s why I ’ m out here . ”
Many in the community contest police allegations that Gray pointed a gun at cops when he was shot during a confrontation with two plainclothes officers on E . 52nd St . Saturday night .
Those suspicions on the street intensified Wednesday when an autopsy report revealed Gray was hit by seven bullets — three to the back .
It was not clear in what order the shots struck the teen or whether he had his back to the police when they opened fire .
A witness told the Daily News Tuesday that the youth did not have a gun in his hand .
But a police spokesman said the witness told detectives she couldn ’ t see the incident clearly “ from the angle I was at . ”
A woman who identified herself as Gray ’ s cousin told news outlets Wednesday that the teen was carrying a gun for a friend and was trying to alert cops that he had a weapon when he was shot .
A loaded . 38 - caliber revolver was recovered at the scene .
The trouble Wednesday night began soon after more than 200 people set off from the vigil site at Church Ave . and E . 55th St . around 8 : 30 p . m .
Dozens chanted “ NYPD , KKK , how many kids did you kill today ” as they marched west on Church Ave . toward the 67th Precinct stationhouse .
But things quickly got out of hand as some protesters tried to climb on police motorcycles .
Men and women were pepper - sprayed and thrown to the ground and handcuffed .
“ I ’ m scared for everything , myself , my store , my workers , ” said Salm Sami , 45 , who owns the Deli , Grill & Grocery at Church and New York Aves .
“ This is three days of this . ”
The protesters eventually backtracked to the vigil site where the parents of Ramarley Graham — an unarmed teenager fatally shot by police in the Bronx last year — were waiting .
“ It never seems to end , ” said Frank Graham , Ramarley ’ s father .
“ The community has a right to be angry . ”
But City Councilman Jumaane Williams , a frequent NYPD critic , blasted outsiders who he said escalated tensions .
“ Please stay the HELL out of our community will only agitate our kids , ” Williams fumed on Twitter .
“ It ’ s dangerous and counterproductive . ”