http : / / www . payvand . com / news / 05 / nov / 1266 . html
11 / 28 / 05		
Aftershocks jolt Iran's Qeshm island , death toll rises to 10
The sixth aftershock shook this southern Iranian island in the Persian Gulf on Monday as death toll from a strong earthquake a day before rose to 10 .
The new death toll came after the bodies of two more victims were found in the village of Ziranag which is one of the 12 worst - hit villages in the quake , Qeshm Governor Heydar Alishvandi said .
He said search was going on for several people who were reported to be missing .
As many as 80 people were also wounded .
Alishvandi said some of the injured were transferred by helicopter to the provincial capital of Bandar Abbas on the coast , including several who were in critical condition .
The governor stated that as many as 2 , 000 people in rural regions needed accommodation , half of whom had been given temporary housing .
He cited tents , blankets , canned food and drinking water as the most needed items .
Alishvandi said the first truck of public aid donations , including tents , blankets , canned food and water tanks were sent to the affected regions Monday morning .
Meanwhile , the head of the Interior Ministry's Natural Disasters Headquarters , Abbas Jazayeri , said that the situation on the Qeshm island was under control .
He said relief workers had completed the shipment of urgent needs including foodstuff , tents and blankets to all affected villages .
But residents at the village of Gavarzin complained that relief operations were slow .
Speaking to IRNA , they said they had not received aid almost a day after the quake .
"Houses in the village of Gavarzin have been destroyed 100 percent and we have now no refuge to take , " Jassem Chabok said , adding all their furniture had been buried under rubble .
A series of aftershocks have hit the island since it was first rocked by a magnitude - 5 . 9 earthquake early Sunday afternoon .
The seismological bases of Tehran University registered a quake measuring 3 . 8 on the Richter scale at 09 : 10 hours ( 0440 GMT ) on Monday .
The earthquake knocked down power in rural areas , sinking them into darkness .
Local officials were struggling Monday to restore electricity .
Flights from and into the International Qeshm Airport were resumed Monday morning .
The airport received minor damage in the quake .
The tremor also damaged hospitals on the island , including one which was reported to have stopped providing medical service .
The worst hit villages sustained between 40 and 80 percent damage .
A team of experts from the governorate of the Hormuzgan province arrived in the affected areas Monday to assess damage to infrastructure .
The head of the team , Alireza Safa , estimated that between 50 and 70 percent of the industrial structure in the 12 worst - hit villages might have been destroyed .
Qeshm , a 1 , 500 - square - kilometer island off the coast southwest of Bandar Abbas and 1 , 500 kilometers south of Tehran , has a population of more than 100 , 000 .
Iranians are still haunted by harrowing images of the world's worst disaster in December 2003 , in which more than 31 , 000 people were killed in the ancient city of Bam .
The country is prone to earthquakes and tremors of lower magnitude are usual occurrences .