http : / / www . timesledger . com / stories / 2013 / 38 / srichhillhitrun _ web _ 2013 _ 09 _ 14 _ q . html
Man charged with DWI , leaving scene after S . Rich Hill mother killed in crash : NYPD
A 59 - year - old woman was killed in a hit - and - run crash while visiting a former neighbor to welcome his new daughter - in - law to the family Friday evening , and the man allegedly behind the wheel of the car that hit her was charged with driving drunk , police and the woman ’ s friend said .
Raj K . Chohan was walking alongside parked cars on 117th Street and 97th Avenue at about 7 p . m . when she was struck by a gray 2013 Toyota Camry , which then sped off , according to cops .
“ The husband and wife came to visit , ” said South Richmond Hill resident Suri Charanjit .
“ He was with her when it happened . ”
Charanjit said he and his family came out of their home on 117th Street and saw a crowd of people gathered and EMS performing CPR on Chohan .
Emergency responders were called in and took Chohan to Jamaica Hospital , where she was later pronounced dead , the NYPD said .
Residents along 117th Street said a police cruiser happened to be pulled over on the side of the road near where the crash occurred , and immediately chased the vehicle .
Police said the officers caught up with 23 - year - old Vishwanand Subryan of Schenectady a few blocks away - at 115th Street and 101st Avenue - where he was taken into custody without incident .
Subryan was charged with vehicular manslaughter , criminally negligent homicide , leaving the scene of an accident resulting in death and DWI , the NYPD said .
Chohan , who is a mother to a married son and daughter , had been in her former neighborhood to visit Piara Singh , according to Charanjit who translated for Singh .
She had moved about a mile and a half away five or six years ago , her friend said .
As part of a Sikh tradition , she had been visiting to greet Singh ’ s daughter - in - law , who recently arrived from India , and present her with gifts , he explained .
Chohan had called Singh ’ s house to let the family know she was outside and asked that someone open the door .
“ When [ Singh ’ s ] son came out , he saw her on the floor , ” Charanjit said .
Both Charanjit and Singh complained cars speeding along 117th Street .
“ The cars come straight from 103rd Avenue .
They have no stop sign , no bump , nothing but green until 95th Avenue , ” Charanjit said .
“ This is just a side street .
We want to have a stop sign . ”