http : / / www . datacenterknowledge . com / archives / 2007 / 11 / 12 / hp - acquires - eyp - mission - critical - facilities /
HP Acquires EYP Mission Critical Facilities
November 12th , 2007
HP has signed a definitive agreement to acquire EYP Mission Critical Facilities Inc . ( EYP MCF ) , one of the leading data center design and engineering firms .
HP said the acquisition will help its customers equip their data centers for improved energy efficiency and high - density environments .
Financial terms of the transaction were not disclosed .
EYP MCF is headquartered in New York and has approximately 350 employees with 13 offices in the United States and the U . K .
The company has designed hundreds of technology - intensive mission critical facilities .
EYP MCF ’ s expertise in green data center design and energy efficiency was a driver in the deal , as it aligns with HP ’ s extensive power and cooling solutions , such as Dynamic Smart Cooling .
“ The data center is the foundation of IT for enterprises , an essential building block for driving business growth and adapting to changing business objectives , ” said John McCain , senior vice president and general manager , HP Services .
“ Acquiring EYP Mission Critical Facilities boosts HP ’ s ability to help customers transform their data centers and build dynamic computing environments from the ground up . ”
“ Worldwide data center requirements are rapidly growing , with significant year - over - year increases in power consumption , which is fueling demand for energy - efficient power and cooling strategies , ” said Peter Gross , chief executive officer of EYP MCF .
“ HP and EYP Mission Critical Facilities will drive innovation by integrating IT infrastructure into the planning and design of the data center , enabling the customer ’ s whole organization to be more energy efficient and adaptive . ”
EYP staff are familiar to many in the industry for their presentations at conferences .
Gross has spoke often on the advantages of DC power distribution in data centers , while Richard Sawyer has given well - received presentations on managing risk from the emergency power off ( EPO ) button .
The deal is subject to certain closing conditions and is expected to be completed within HP ’ s first fiscal quarter .