http : / / rt . com / usa / brooklyn - riot - police - protesters - 127 /
Brooklyn neighborhood on police lockdown following protest
Published time : March 12 , 2013 02 : 03
Edited time : March 13 , 2013 02 : 15
Police intervened after more than 100 people joined together for a candlelit vigil in the East Flatbush neighborhood in Brooklyn , New York , where 16 - year - old Kimani Gray was shot multiple times by police on Saturday .
Brooklynites on Twitter reported that police followed the march and searched apartment buildings in the neighborhood without warrants , looking for children who had been seen throwing bottles at police from neighborhood rooftops .
Officers clad in riot gear were seen along the block , and barricades were placed on the streets .
March participants chanted , "NYPD / KKK / how many kids will you kill today , " witnesses reported .
Police said the crowd fell the 67th Precinct station in East Flatbush , where teenagers who were not apparently a part of any organized group threw garbage and empty bottles at the windows .
"I'm in the middle of the riot action at Church and Snyder in my district .
Right now , things are tense , " New York City Councilman Jumaane D . Williams , who represents the area , said on Twitter .
Williams said people smashed out windows and overturned garbage cans during the disorder , and that one person had been attacked outside of a local Rite Aid .
“ Tonight was a peaceful vigil that devolved into a riot , ” Williams wrote .
“ The youth in this community have no outlets for their anger , no community . ”
One person is believed to have been arrested , and no injuries were reported .
Sixteen - year - old Kimani Gray was shot and killed on Saturday night after pointing a gun at two plainclothes officers who approached him , police said .
According to the officers involved in the shooting , the teenager adjusted his belt "suspiciously , " and after they exited their vehicle to investigate , he pointed a . 357 caliber revolver at them .
Both officers fired a total of 11 shots at the suspect , hitting Gray multiple times in his torso and legs .
His sister , Mahnefah Gray , told NY1 she doubted her brother was carrying a gun , but was rather grabbing his belt “ to squeeze it ” because he had a “ skinny waist . ”
"They thought he was grabbing back to get a gun , ” she said .
“ He's 16 years old .
What is he pointing a gun at over six police , knowing that they would kill him ?
He has common sense . "
Witnesses said that Gray , who was running for his life when he was shot , did not have a gun .
"Stay down , or we ’ ll shoot you again , ” police said once Gray had been hit , according to the New York Times .
"The cops , they just jumped out of the car so fast , " the New York Daily News quoted witness Devonte Brown as saying .
"They started shooting him and he went down , he was bleeding , holding his side , screaming , 'stop , stop . "
But one woman , who identified herself as the slain teen ’ s cousin , told NY1 that Kimani was in fact holding the gun for a friend .
She also believed that Kimani was attempting to alert the police that he had the weapon rather than use it .
After the shooting , Gray was rushed to a hospital but was declared dead on arrival .
The officers involved in the shooting were also treated for trauma and tinnitus .
Police said there is no evidence the unidentified officers acted inappropriately , though they were put on administrative leave .
The also said that Gray had previously been arrested four times on charges of grand larceny , possession of stolen property and inciting a riot .