Man charged in fatal Bloomington hit and run
The man police say is behind a fatal hit and run outside a Sam 's Club store in Bloomington , now faces a murder charge .
The Hennepin County attorney 's office handed down charges to Anthony Phillip Lasalle Friday , which include one count of third-degree murder and three counts of criminal vehicular homicide .
Police said 66-year-old LuAnn Marie Johnson , of Burnsville , was with her husband when she was struck in the crosswalk outside the store , located at 200 West American Boulevard , around 7 p.m. Wednesday .
Paramedics rushed Johnson to Hennepin County Medical Center where she died .
`` Kind , gentle , Christian , loved the Lord , and she 's better off where she is now , '' said Lois Scholz , a friend of LuAnn 's .
Scholz lives across the hall from LuAnn and her husband Leroy .
`` Leroy was blessed and he 's comfortable with this , '' Scholz said .
`` I talked with him and he 's very at peace with the idea that she 's with the Lord . ''
After a struggle , officers were able to apprehend the Bloomington man a few blocks away from the scene , by using a taser .
During his flee , Lasalle struck two other vehicles , but no one was injured , according to authorities .
According to the criminal complaint , Lasalle was transported to Fairview Southdale Hospital to be treated for his injures he sustained during his apprehension .
He also had blood drawn , which was tested , and resulted in showing his blood-alcohol level was .41 .
Lasalle told police he had drank a half-liter of vodka before driving to Sam 's Club .
He also admitted that he knew he had hit someone and was required to stop .
However , he told officials that because he was drunk , it affected his decision to leave the scene .
State records show Lasalle has three prior DUI convictions , spanning from 1990 to 1991 .
He also has two motor vehicle theft convictions .
Lasalle is in custody .
If convicted , he faces up to 55 years in prison , a $ 60,000 fine , or both .