http : / / voices . yahoo . com / troy - michigan - office - shooting - follow - 1 - dead - 2 - injured - 294072 . html ? cat=8
Troy , Michigan Office Shooting Follow - Up - 1 Dead , 2 Injured , and Suspect Caught
Apr 12 , 2007
"A man suspected of shooting three people , killing one , at an accounting firm where was fired last week was arrested after a high - speed chase a few hours after the Monday morning attack , authorities said .
Police said they had located Anthony LaCalamita , 38 , on Interstate 75 , north of the suburban Detroit office building where the shootings took place .
Sheriff's deputies and state police chased him for 30 miles , including through a construction zone , at speeds up to 120 mph before he finally pulled over after about 15 minutes , Genesee County Sheriff Robert J . Pickell said .
'He probably realized if he didn't , he was going to be shot , ' Undersheriff James Gage said .
LaCalamita said nothing after officers surrounded him , Pickell said , describing the suspect as 'subdued .
Very , very , very subdued . '
Officers found a 12 - gauge pump - action shotgun and three live shells in the vehicle , Pickell said .
Witnesses said the shooter used a shotgun or a rifle , Troy police Lt . Gerry Scherlinck said . " ( Fox News article )
The suspect was finally apprehended after a high - speed chase on Interstate 75 .
He was finally stopped near the Saginaw County and Bay County border .
Evidence found in the vehicle points to having apprehended the correct suspect .
"Officers found a gun in the vehicle matching the description of the one used in the shootings , Troy police Lt . Gerry Scherlinck said .
Some witnesses told police that when the shooter walked into the office on the building's second floor around 10 a . m . Monday , he looked as if he was trying to hide something , Troy Police Chief Charles Craft said .
Police couldn't say how many shots were fired .
'I'm not positive all three of the people were targeted , but there appeared to be some purpose , ' Craft said .
The families of the two wounded men requested 'total privacy , ' and the hospital would not release any details about their conditions , Beaumont Hospital spokeswoman Ilene Wolfe said .
She said the third victim died on the way to the hospital .
LaCalamita was listed among the professional staff on the website of Gordon Advisors , a public accounting and business consulting firm in the building .
Calls to Gordon Advisors were not answered Monday afternoon , and a recording said the offices were closed . " ( USA Today article )
Local evening news in Michigan originally reported that two of the three victims died .
The subsequent car chase tied up traffic on the I - 75 corridor in Flint , Saginaw , and Bay City , Michigan for quite some time .