Jackson arrested on DUI charge
Despite his arrest on suspicion of driving under the influence early yesterday , Chargers receiver Vincent Jackson will play in Sunday 's AFC divisional playoff game at Pittsburgh .
Jackson , 25 , was driving east on state Route 52 near Interstate 805 just after 2:30 a.m. when he was pulled over for an observed traffic violation , California Highway Patrol Officer Brad Baehr said .
Jackson faces the misdemeanor DUI allegation as well as charges that he was driving on probation for a prior DUI in June 2006 , Baehr said .
The results of a blood test are pending .
Jackson proffered his innocence in a statement released yesterday afternoon .
`` This morning I was stopped by an officer , '' Jackson said in the statement .
`` I do n't think any charges will be filed as a result of the stop .
In the event they are , I look forward to clearing my name and proving my innocence . ''
The arrest will not affect Jackson 's status for Sunday 's game .
The NFL 's collective bargaining agreement gives the league , not teams , authority to punish players for alcohol and substance abuses .
Any discipline by the league would be meted out for the 2009 season , several sources said .
A suspension certainly is possible .
The NFL 's substance-abuse policy states : `` Discipline for a second or subsequent offense is likely to be a suspension , the duration of which may escalate for repeat offenses . ''
Jared Allen , then with Kansas City , was suspended for the first four games of the 2007 season after being charged with DUI twice in one year .
The NFL later reduced his suspension to two games .
Chargers players had the day off yesterday .
General Manager A.J. Smith issued the following statement on Jackson 's arrest :
`` We 're aware of the off-the-field issue involving Vincent .
Obviously , we 're disappointed .
We take these issues very seriously .
Moving forward , we will monitor the situation and have no further comment . ''
Jackson was driving a 2008 GMC Sierra registered to him , Baehr said .
He was booked into county jail and was released by 6 a.m. , Baehr said .
Jackson , in his fourth season , caught a career-high 59 passes and led the team with 1,098 yards , also a career high .
His seven receiving touchdowns were also a career best and second on the team .
Earlier this week , Smith called Jackson a `` true professional '' and `` ultimate team player '' for how hard Jackson played even while not catching any passes .
`` You win championships with players like Vincent Jackson , '' Smith said .
The general manager has put an emphasis on character and avoiding off-the-field issues .
The Chargers have not had any arrests become public this season and have been relatively trouble-free in recent years .
In 2006 , linebacker Steve Foley was shot by an off-duty Coronado policeman who suspected Foley of driving under the influence .
Foley pleaded guilty to misdemeanor drunken driving and was placed on five years ' probation .
In July , he settled a lawsuit against the city of Coronado for $ 5.5 million .
Jackson 's contract runs through 2009 , and he is among the hottest young receivers in the league .
What becomes of this incident , combined with the previous DUI , could affect Jackson 's long-term future with the Chargers .
Smith has let go a number of players who have had off-the-field troubles .
While none was as productive or possessed the upside of Jackson , Smith did last February release tackle Shane Olivea just two years after signing Olivea to a contract that guaranteed him $ 9 million .
Olivea later underwent treatment for an addiction to pain killers .
`` You 're a Charger one year at a time , '' Smith has often said .
Recently , speaking of the lack of incidents involving his players , Smith said , `` It 's very important if you want to be a Charger you do the right things on and off the field . ''
The Chargers leave Friday for Pittsburgh , where they will face the Steelers at 1:45 p.m. Sunday .