Charges Filed In Parking Lot Drunken Hit-And-Run
The Hennepin County Attorney filed criminal charges Friday against the man who they say hit and killed a woman walking out of a store .
Anthony Phillip LaSalle is now in jail for that crime .
Bloomington Police say he drank so much his blood-alcohol level was 0.41 , more than five times the legal limit .
LaSalle faces serious charges , including murder and vehicular homicide .
Both of them are felonies .
The criminal complaint in this case gives details about exactly what happened Wednesday night .
LaSalle drank 1/2 liter of Vodka before he drove to the Sam 's Club in Bloomington and parked his car .
As he was leaving the lot , he accelerated rapidly , and felt his front and rear left side tires drive over someone .
LuAnn Marie Johnson was hit at such a high rate of speed that her feet came out from under her and she hit her head on the pavement as she fell .
The car dragged her 10 feet .
Johnson and her husband were walking out of the store about 7 p.m .
They were in the crosswalk when the car came speeding toward them .
Michael Gallagher happened to be right there , too .
`` Our hearts and prayers are with the man who lost his wife who died , '' said Gallagher , who threw down his Salvation Army Bell and ran to Johnson and her husband to help .
`` He was pretty shook up .
He tried to provide first aid for and tried to provide comfort for her , '' said Sgt. Marty Earley with the Bloomington Police Department , as he described Gallagher 's actions .
Minutes later , Bloomington Police saw the car LaSalle was driving .
They tried to contact LaSalle , but they say he was uncooperative and refused to get out of his vehicle , saying that officers would need to kill him .
Those police officers had to use a taser to get him out of his car .
They say he smelled like alcohol and had glassy eyes .
Bloomington Police officers gave Johnson first aid and questioned people who saw the hit-and-run .
Johnson suffered a head trauma and her injuries were severe .
She died an hour later at Hennepin County Medical Center .