http : / / thepopcornjunkie . com / 2012 / 04 / 05 / gary - ross - in - negotiations - to - direct - hunger - games - sequel - catching - fire /
Gary Ross in negotiations to direct ‘ Hunger Games ’ sequel ‘ Catching Fire ’
Now that ‘ The Hunger Games ’ is a monster hit Lionsgate are getting ready for the sequel ‘ Catching Fire ’ .
The three leads Jennifer Lawrence , Josh Hutcherson , and Liam Hemsworth are already signed on to appear in the sequel and , no doubt , the third film ‘ Mockingjay ’ as well .
The biggest player who doesn ’ t have a deal in place is director Gary Ross and The Hollywood Reporter and Collider are reporting that he is in negotiations with Lionsgate to return .
Hit the jump for more details and how ‘ Catching Fire ’ could face a huge delay .
Allegedly , Ross was paid $3 million to direct ‘ The Hunger Games ’ plus five per cent on the back end .
With no deal in place for Ross to direct future films in the series , he is in a good position to ask for more money .
There is no doubt that Ross was instrumental in making ‘ The Hunger Games ’ a huge success .
It was his direction that many critics applauded and brought the film down to earth , as opposed to the bloated spectacle it could have become in the wrong hands .
Lionsgate can ’ t hide that they don ’ t have the money , but they have to spend it wisely to ensure the quality of the franchise continues and Ross could get a good deal out of it .
Of course , if Ross wants too much money Lionsgate could easily give him the flick and hire a new director similar to the ‘ Harry Potter ’ and ‘ Twilight ’ films .
Considering Lionsgate recently absorbed Summit and their executives ( masters of the ‘ Twilight ’ films ) into team Lionsgate ; a change in director could be likely .
Another tough challenge facing Lionsgate with the production of ‘ Catching Fire ’ is the possibility of delays due to the schedule of Lawrence .
‘ Catching Fire ’ has a release date of 22 November 2013 with production starting later in the year .
Lawrence is set to star in the sequel to ‘ X - Men : First Class ’ that could go into production soon if Fox decide to exercise Lawrence ’ s option to do the sequel .
The ‘ X - Men : First Class ’ sequel already has a director with Matthew Vaughn returning and Fox might rush it into production to capitalise on Lawrence ’ s star power .